 Okay, so my name is Elizabeth Paratapsing. I am from Shugones Government Primary School and I am from Standard Five. Mrs. Kuanrup looked with some interest at the group of five students huddled together at the back of the class. It was recess time and the five Standard Five students seemed deeply engrossed in conversation. What were they up to? Were they planning something mischievous or just old-talking as they usually did? Mrs. Kuanrup decided not to pry. It was indeed a wise decision for the mini conference really concerned her. Carla had been reliably informed that Friday would be Mrs. Kuanrup's birthday. Mrs. Kuanrup was affectionately called Mrs. Kuan Sook by her students. They all admired and respected her greatly. Friday was to be her birthday and the students agreed to have a surprise birthday party for her. In the order for it to be a real surprise, they decided that no one else in the class would be told about their plan. It was agreed therefore that the five of them would be responsible for the eats and drinks of the party. Rhea would bring sandwiches for the 25 people. Hafizah and Carla would each ask their mother to bake a cake. Mark said that he would ask his dad to make 25 mini rotis. On hearing this, the others responded by saying, ooh. They all knew how tasty Mark's dad made his mini rotis and anxiously looked forward to this mouth-watering experience once more. Trevor indicated that he would supply the drinks. He would make a special fruit punch. The Man of Peace. Born on October 2nd, 1869, Mohandas Gandhi belonged to a privileged class in India. His father, though Prime Minister of several leading Indian states, had little education. Yet he taught his son, Mohandas, the values of kindness, honesty, and humility. These were to prepare him for a life of great compassion towards others. Mohandas, as a boy, was no brilliant student at school. In fact, he found it difficult to learn multiplication tables. He later wrote, As he recounted his primary school days, yet books were his sole companion, as he was very shy and lacked confidence to talk to anyone. As he grew older, he found friends and played in the streets by the sea. He spun tops and played with rubber balloons. He was quiet and obedient and learned to carry out the orders of his elders without any question. While at high school, Mohandas married a pretty little girl called Kastabhai. Both of them were only 13 at that time. The marriage at such a tender age was nothing strange. Child marriages were arranged by Hindu families and were then customary all over India. In spite of his early marriage, Mohandas continued his education. In fact, many of his friends were learned and wise men. Whenever they came to visit, he would sit quietly in a corner and listen attentively as they expounded their great wisdom. Mohandas was particularly impressed by one of the beliefs of his wise men. It stated that in all religions there is good and that people's belief should be respected. On completing secondary school, Mohandas went to England to study law. This was to become a great experience for young Mohandas. He had to adjust his Hindu ways to the lifestyle of English. Master of Cicero of Dominica. The first people to live on the island of Dominica were the Arawak Indians. Once there was an Arawak Indian chief called Cicero who lived in a cave on the hillside. A group of hunters secretly followed the Indian chief one day and his path led them to the cave on the hill where he lived. After arguing among themselves, they decided to venture into the cave. They found him covered with the colored feathers of a parrot. The hunters were impressed by the deep green and violet feathers and they thought he must have a divine power. So they started to worship him by praying to him and asking him to tell the future. Soon they began to ask him favors. In order to grant their wishes, he gave them the things they had asked for from in his cave. One day a woman came to him and asked him to give her a child. Knowing he did not have a child in his cave, he became afraid that others would find out he did not have supernatural powers. Late that night he crept out of his cave and set out to the sea. Some say that the steps from his cave that led into the sea can still be between the carib lands of Wakarasky and Kribu. From out of the clouds a large full-bodied green blue flew over the quiet blue of the Caribbean Sea. Early morning mists were slowly rising from the waters. The greenish blue head of the bird turned towards rugged volcanic peaks, surrounded in clouds. Preparations for the hunt. As the Sun crept over the eastern sky, casting a rosy glow on the trees and hilltops, a little Arawak boy sprung out of his long-haired hand-hammer. He leaped over several low wooden stools, edged past his father's hammock and crept out to the back of the Ajugpa. He raced down to the center of the village. And when he reached the priest's hut stopped. He looked around expectantly and the neat circle of Ajugtas which surrounded him. All of them looked alike with their touched roof reaching low, almost touching the ground. No human was audible only of screeching of an owl and a low hooting of some jungle bird. He waited, still no sign of anyone. Quickly he put his fingers to his mouth and let out a long shrill whistle. Seconds later he got his first reply, one whistle. Then another and then several more. He knew now that his friends were awake and would come meet him. Today was a special day for Namba and his friends. It was the day of the hunting party left and it was their task to help them in preparations. When the men left the village they were practically in charge. They had to help protect the women and the girls and see that everything went well. They had felt proud to be given such responsibilities, Namba especially since he was the oldest among the boys. He walked into the priest's hut and looked around. He felt very special joy this morning. For with each hunter that took place, his chances of joining it grew increasingly greater. Araknis. Araknis was a maiden who became famous throughout Greece. Though she was neither rich nor beautiful, nor did she come from any great city. She lived in an obscure little village and her father was a humble dyer of wood. In this he was very skillful producing many varied shades. Above all he was famous for the clear bright scarlet which is made from shellfish and which was the most glorious of all the colors in ancient Greece. Even more skillful than her father was Araknis. It was her task to spin the fleecy wool into a fine soft thread and to weave it into cloth on the high standing loom within the cottage. Araknis was small and pale from much work. Her eyes were light and her hair was a dusty brown. Yet she was quick and graceful. Her fingers roughened as they were. Went so fast that it was hard to follow their flickering movements. So soft and even was her thread. So fine her cloth. So gorgeous her embroidery. That soon her products were known all over Greece. No one has seen the likes of them before. At last Araknis fame became so great that people used to come from far and wide to watch her working. Even the graceful nature of goddess even the graceful nature goddess would steal in from stream or forest and peep shyly through the dark doorway. They watched in wonder the white arms of Araknis as she stood at the loom and and threw the shuttle from her hand to hand between the hanging threads. They watched as she drew out the long wool fine as hair as she sat spinning. Surely the great goddess Athene herself must have taught her. People would murmur to one another. Who else could know the secret of such a marvelous skill? Araknis was used to being wondered at and she was immensely proud of her skill that had brought so many to look on to her. The first coconut tree. Many years ago in the village of Tamara there lived a beautiful young girl. Her name was Ina and she was the daughter of a blind woman. They lived near a cave which had a stream flowing through it and at dawn and sunset Ina loved to battle this stream. Now there were several young men who wished to marry Ina because of her beauty but she was only interested in looking after her mother. One day while she was bathing in her favorite part of the stream an enormous eel startled her by coming very close and touching her. Day after day the eel would do this. Indeed Ina grew quite accustomed to the eel's presence. She was admiring her new friend one day when to her surprise something strange began to happen. The eel stood up and changed into a handsome boy. I am Tuna he said. God and protector of all freshwater eels. Because of your beauty and charm I've left my gloomy home to win your love. Please be mine. Overcome by the great young man's beauty Ina could only nod her head. From that day Tuna became her lover and his human form. Always though he changed back into an eel when he returned to the stream. As time passed Tuna began to grow unhappy. He knew he was being unfair to Ina because he could never stay with her for long. Because he loves her and thought and though it broke his heart he decided to leave. Anansi and his family. As happens to everybody Anansi got married. His wife was named Kruxie and she was a really pretty little lady. They got along like a knife and fork. Kruxie did everything for Anansi. Clean the house and swept the yard and cooked food and everything went along merrily. But also happens hard times came. Anansi and Kruxie was short of food which is a thing. Anansi couldn't bear. Now Kruxie had a pig that she kept in her yard. And the hungrier Anansi got the more his mind turned towards the pig. He dared not to ask Kruxie kill the pig because it was her prized possession. He dared not ask Kruxie to kill the pig because it was her prized possession. But the thought of a rose pork was with him night and day. And the sight of the pig made him tremble. Anansi got so anxious that he finally took to his bed. He lay there with his eyes closed, hole in his belly and groaning. Kruxie did her best to look after him. She boiled up tea made from the leaf of life. She put cold flanils on his head. Nothing worked. Anansi just lay there and groaned. Kruxie was at her wits end. Kruxie whispered at Anansi, I'm sinking fast. You must get the doctor. So Kruxie set out to look for the doctor. As soon as she was gone, Anansi jumped out of the window and sprinted into the bush. So it was that Kruxie coming along the road met Anansi disguised as the doctor coming the other way. The Great Read. Even though Tokea had passed the rites of ordeal without showing fear or crying out in pain, he was he was not too sure that he wanted to go on his first read. On those reads his tribe the Caribs or Kalinago would read the Arawaks or Lukukari as they were called. The Kalinago would take captives home to become slaves. The night before his first read Tokea went to show his warp paint and feathers to an old Lukukari woman named Luwaniwa. She lived at the edge of the village. She had been captured in an earlier raid but Tokea's father the chief had spared her because she had saved Tokea's life when he was a newborn baby. She still she lived alone at the edge of the village because she was despised. When Tokea saw her she was pounding cassava but she left but she let the pestle rest when he spoke. Greeting Luwaniwa as you see I'm now a warrior and tomorrow I go on a raid. The biggest ever made. Indeed you look like a warrior Luwaniwa said with your new scars, your bright paint, your new tipped arrows and your expression of pride. But in your heart do you wish to kill and maim and tear young girls from their homelands? To live a life of slavery under cruel masters? Of course that is what I wish. That is the destiny of my race. To fight, to plunder, to capture and to kill and to feast on the dead of our enemies. He added The Advantage of Knowledge. Many many years ago a rich man Jean Claude and the poor man Henry Durant lived side by side in Bordeaux, France. Jean Claude had a fine house and garden, horses and carriages. He also had many servants to him but he was ignorant and silly. Henry Durant though the poor in gold and silver was rich in knowledge and understanding. His learning and wisdom helped him to understand people. He also appreciated the differences between ugliness and beauty, good and evil. Two men argued endlessly. The rich man said that the money was more important than anything else in the world. He claimed that if anyone had money he could buy whatever he wanted. What good is all your wisdom? He often asked his neighbor. If you have enough money to buy the things you need. The wise poor man was too discreet to try to explain his point of view to the silly rich man. He knew he was quite incapable of understanding it. One day war broke out. The entire town was in ruins after the fighting ended. Both men were stripped of everything. They were both forced to flee for their lives and seek refuge in another place. The rich man without his belongings was poor indeed. He now had nothing. Furthermore wherever he went he was scorned for his ignorance. The wise man however maintained his learning and wisdom. No one could ever take him from the rich store of knowledge in his mind and his heart. Sweet Peppers, Manor and Moonshine. This is a story about two gardeners, Samda and Singh, who lived in a village of El Soroko. 55 years before Singh had been born in Silver Mill, San Juan, the son of a gardener. Even before he learned to count he could tell you the exact time it took different seeds to grow. He had little schooling and could read and write only enough to get by but there was nothing he did not know about the earth and crops he planted. Old Samda was Singh's neighbor. He lived in a small mud hut which he built himself at the time of his marriage but now his wife Mai was dead and he lived alone. He missed her and the aloo pies she made. No one had ever been able to make aloo pies like Mai. The walls of the hut were whitewashed both outside and inside. On the inside walls there were many pictures, all scenes of India. Samda kept the hut very clean, swept it every day with a broom he had bought from Singh's wife. Rukmin. Samda was a very short man with bent legs. There was not one tooth in his mouth yet but he could eat anything. Singh's little boy Ramesh saw him eating whole cucumbers, skin and all and roasted corn. How could he do it? Ramesh asked Singh. All Samda's gums are as hard as that rock stone over there and I wouldn't like him to bite me. Yes I have four siblings, two brothers and one sister. I like to bake. I love, I love, well my mommy has a baking business so I love to follow what she do. I like to do hair. I like to do fancy stuff like make myself look pretty and do my hair, paint my nails, makeup and them stuff and well I like to come to school. Yeah I bake everything on my own. Yeah well I last week Friday I make cupcakes for my class, strawberry cupcakes. I icing them, decorated them, even bake them for myself. Yeah. I bake for the class like once a month to maybe ease their mind from what they're doing because I know it's be working hard. Yeah so just to get them a little relaxed I bake cupcakes on a Friday and every week and them stuff. Confetti, confetti cake. It's like rainbow cake but it's yeah you put sprinkles inside flavored sprinkles and in a vanilla cake batter. Yeah. I bake cheesecake, flan, cookies. Well I learned from my mommy. I can't make it that good as yet but I still make it. I whip up the cream cheese and the cream cheese and the awana essence and then I use the digestive biscuits. I crush them up to make the crust and I mix it with butter. So then I put it in the oven with a pan of water so you not to get too hard like cake but not too liquidy. Like under the water to make it. Yeah. Yeah. Well I do my own hair to come to school. Yeah. Well I kind of learning how to braid right now and I want to learn how to do cane rule. Okay. So do you put your sister here? No. Okay so just yesterday. Yeah just my hand my sister here. So how are you feeling about this year right now? It's stressful because I have lessons every day. Three hours, two hours plus school. It's stressful. And how are you taking your time? Well I take my breaks often. So when I do my work I'll maybe take a 15 minutes break. To half an hour I'll go eat maybe drink some water, watch a little bit of TV and then I'll come back to do my work. What school do you want to go to? Well I have two schools that I really want to pass for. If I don't pass for one I have a school that I want to go to and they're very close. Holy Faith Convent and Kuvaiz. So when you're not studying at year finish what kind of things do you like doing? Well when I finish SA I'm going to learn how to play piano. Because my cousin and my sister play violin right now. So I can't go because I have lessons and stuff. So after SA I'm going to make up for everything. I'm going to play violin, no sorry piano. I'm going to learn how to do hair. Do it properly. What about movies? Movies? You're taking a break sometimes. When you take a break. Relaxing would be music for me. Music? Like listening to music. What's your favorite? Happy. Well my favorite band is BTS. It's a Korean band. Well I like to listen to them. What's your favorite song? Dynamite. I'm not sure if I know that one but I love BTS. It's five of them right? Seven. So you like music but you don't like movies much? I watch movies but once it's too long I get up and walk because it's a bit too long sometimes. I feel like I just sit in one place. So I like to watch series and episodes. What's your favorite series? Family reunion. I've heard of it but I've never watched it. Tell me about your favorite episode. My favorite episode was when this girl named Coco that was the mother of five children. And she was about to make the fifth baby when she was relaxed and stuff but she got a real bad pain and she started to get seizures and the nurse wasn't helping her. So after they prayed and they made sure she was okay and they sent her back home after she woke up because she was fine when she woke up. Yeah she had the baby and after she had the seizure because she had got a real bad pain and she had the seizure. What about cats? Do you like cats? I don't like cats but I love fluffy dogs. I love Golden Retriever, Husky, Shepsky, German Shepherd and Husky mixed together. Okay do you have cats? Yeah I have a Husky. What do you do for the Husky? That's my sister dog isn't it mine. She just jumps on me. Okay so you're with her as well? Yeah I try to play with her. Okay so when last you had a baby? My birthday is in March the 29th. And what did you do? Well my mommy tried to surprise me with a birthday party for me. She invited all my family and my cousins and they sleep over. We make popcorn, we watch movies whole night and it was super fun. Wow that must have been quite some night. Yeah since my mommy had the baking business she made a really tall cake for me. What kind of cake does your mommy make? Savory sweets. Savory sweets? Yeah you can order any cake you want she makes. Okay I will check the cake. I will definitely check that out. Is there anything you would like to do for Christmas? Like what are you planning on doing? Are you taking a break? Yeah well the only day I have off would be Christmas Day. Okay but you have lessons probably? Yeah. So well we are going to set up the trampoline. My cousin has a huge trampoline. So we are going to sleep, we are going to do a challenge to see who can stay in the trampoline the longest. Wow that's a long trampoline. Yeah we are going to put a mattress inside it so we can sleep in it. Well only that's going to be our day. Thank you. Okay thank you. You're welcome. Okay thank you. You're welcome. Okay. This is one story right? Yeah. Like this is three pages? No this is one, it's three separate stories. Okay. When the boy went to ask for a loan he had a great feeling about it. He walked in with a softer grasp and acted like he was going to ask for a loan. He acted like he knew he would be accepted. He extended his hand out and waited for the answer. The boy had always wanted to act and when he was finally accepted into a great acting school he was over the moon. His parents were supportive but they did not have the money to pay for it outright so they took the boy out for a loan. He was a little nervous about it but he knew it was worth it. He was determined to make the most of this opportunity and extend himself as much as possible. The boy was very excited to get his loan accepted. He had worked great to extend his grasp on acting and was very excited to see how far he could go with it. I have always been a goal-orientated person. When I set my sights on something I pull off all my effort into achieving it. This has led me to be very successful in many areas of my life. One area where this is particularly true is in my lifting. I am a competitive powerlifter and I've flown all over the world to compete. I love the challenge of lifting and the feeling of accomplishment that comes with setting my achieving goals. I am also very crisp in my reaction to things quickly. This has helped me in my career as well as in other areas of my life. I am able to extend myself beyond what is accepted as normal and achieve great things. This has allowed me to mask my fear and present myself as a confident and successful person. I have always been a driven person. When I set my mind to something I usually achieve it because I am very proactive. I never give up easily and I always find a way to get things done. My friends know that if they need help with anything they can come to me and I will always be there for them. I am also very independent and I like to do things on my own. I am not the type of person to ask for help unless I really need it. I was given a long and difficult task but I figured it out quickly and adopted a positive attitude. At first it seemed beyond my grasp but I flexed my knowledge, my knowledge muscles and in a single minute covered all the points. I enjoy the sensation of the wind rushing past me as I run. It is a swifter way to get around than walking. I can cover more ground in less time. I sometimes grasp for breath as I run but I keep going. I am electing to extend my running time today. I hope I can keep up the pace and not get too tired. I am among the first finish race. I remove my mask and enjoy the feeling of accomplishment. I was vexed when my birthday toy turned out to be a shirt. I had asked for a gift I could grasp and play with. I had waited so long for it but now I do not know how to act. Should I tell my mother that I was sad? I think I may hurt her feelings. The sculpture was a long thin toy that gift shops loved to sell. It was easy to grasp and carry but it vexed many people. They would ask why it was so long and why it was so expensive. It was a toy that was meant to be enjoyed but it was not so easy to do. I enjoy running because it is a swifter way to get from place to place. When I am running I sometimes grasp for air but it is a good feeling because it means I am working hard. I am also electing to extend my life by running instead of sitting around all day. This is something that I accepted among runners. We do not care what we look like when we are running because we are wearing a mask of determination. Enjoying the swifter pace I grasp for air and elect to extend my run. The goat you adopted is going to destroy the clothes you had sewn for the king. This is not a real story because goats are not known to eat clothes. Even if they did your clothes would not be destroyed. Once there was a little boy who owned a goat. The boy loved his goat and took very good care of him. One day the king decided he wanted to adopt the goat and make him his pet. The boy was sad to lose his goat but was happy that he would have a good home with his king. The king gave the boy a task to do each day and take care of the goat. The boy enjoyed doing this and was happy to help out. One day the boy went to pick up the goat and found that all of his clothes were shredded in a mess on the ground. The boy knew that the goat must have eaten them. The boy was very sad that his clothes had been destroyed. But he was glad that the goat had a good home and was being taken care of by the king. One day a little boy found a goat in the forest. The goat was very hungry so the boy took it home and fed it. The goat was so grateful that it followed the boy everywhere he went. One day the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if he could stay at the castle. The boy was too sad to say goodbye to his goat but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There was once a wasp who lived in the savanna. One day she made the choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She felt that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle to meet the king. When she got there she saw that the king had a goat with him. The bee was very excited to meet the goat and stared to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet Bee and they became friends quickly. The next day Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee did not know what had happened but she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time there was a dog who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However, one day when she was playing she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vet who said she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch with her anymore. However, she was still happy to be with her owner. One day the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some of her food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from now on. One day the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party and he decided to invite the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked her to join him. The boy was too sad to say goodbye to his goat but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There was once a wasp who lived in the savanna. One day she made the choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day a wasp named Bee decided to join the castle to meet the king. When she got there she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and stared to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet Bee and they became friends quickly. The next day Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what had happened but she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time there was a dog who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However, one day when she was playing she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vent who said she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore. However, she was still happy to be with her owner. One day the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from then on. There was once a little boy who had a goat named Benny. Benny was a friendly goat and loved to play with the little boy. One day Benny ate all of his boy's clothes. Benny was sorry for doing this and promised to not do it again. Benny was always happy to be around the little boy and enjoyed spending time with him. Alligators are large reptiles that live in swamps in the southern eastern United States. They can grow to be over 15 feet long and weigh over 1,000 pounds. Alligators have a thick scaly skin that is between green and brown in color. They have a long narrow snout and sharp teeth. Alligators are good swimmers and can stay underwater for up to an hour. They hunt for fish, frogs and other smaller animals. Alligators are dangerous animals and should be avoided. There was once an agouti who ate too many crunchy things and developed a terrible case of gas. Whenever she let out a groan, everyone around her would point and laugh. She tried to mask the smell with perfume but nothing seemed to work. She even tried standing on her head but the only thing that seemed to help was holding her breath. Unfortunately, whenever she reacted to something, her gas would escape and the cycle would start all over again.