 Hi, my name is Naomi Alyssa Badram and I am a standard five student attending the Shogunate Government Primary School. The man of peace. Born on 2nd October 1869, Mohandas Gandhi belonged to a privileged class in India. His father, the Prime Minister of several leading Indian states, had little education. Yet he thought his son, Mohandas, the values of kindness, honesty and humility. These were life of great compassion towards others. Mohandas, as a boy, was no brilliant student at school. In fact, he found it difficult to learn multiplication tables. He later wrote, My intellect must have been sluggish and my memory raw as he recounted his primary schools. Yet books were his sole companion as he was very shy and lacked confidence to talk to anyone. As he grew older, he found friends and played in the streets and by the sea. He spun tops and played with rubber balloons. He was quiet and obedient and learned to carry out the orders of his elders without any question. While at high school, Mohandas married a pretty little girl called Kastura. Both of them were only 13 at the time. The marriage at such a tender age was nothing strange. Child marriages were arranged by Hindu families and were then customary all over India. In spite of his early marriage, Mohandas continued his education. In fact, many of his friends were learned and wise men. Whenever they came to visit, he would sit quietly in a corner and listen attentively as they expounded their great wisdom. Mohandas was particularly impressed by one of the beliefs of these wise men. It stated that in all religions, there's good and that people's beliefs should be respected. On completing secondary school, Mohandas went to England to study law. This was to become a great experience for young Mohandas. He had to adjust his Hindu ways to the lifestyle of English. The advantage of knowledge. Many, many years ago, a rich man, Jean-Claude, and a poor man, Henry Durant, lived side by side in Bordeaux, France. Jean-Claude had a fine house and garden, horses and carriages. He also had many servants to wait on him, but he was ignorant and silly. Henry Durant, though poor in gold and silver, was rich in knowledge and understanding. His learning and wisdom helped him to understand people. He also appreciated the differences between ugliness and beauty, good and evil. The two men argued endlessly. The rich man said that money was more important than anything else in the world. He claimed that if anyone had money, he could buy whatever he wanted. What good is all your wisdom? He often asked his neighbor. If you haven't, the money, to buy the things you need. The wise poor man was too discreet to try to explain his point of view to the rich, silly, mean. He knew he was quite incapable of understanding it. One day, a war broke out. The entire town was in ruins after the fighting ended. Both men were stripped of everything. They were both forced to flee for their lives and seek refuge in another place. The rich man, with all his belongings, was materially poor indeed. He now had nothing. Furthermore, wherever he went, he was scorned for his ignorance. The wise man, however, maintained his learning and wisdom. No one could ever take from him the rich store of knowledge in his mind and in his heart. One day, the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if he could stay at the castle. The boy was sad to say goodbye to his goat but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There once was a wasp who lived on the savanna. One day, she made the choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her connect with others. One day, a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle and meet the king. When she got there, she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was also very happy to meet Bee and they became friends quickly. The next day, Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time, she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what happened but she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time, there was a dog who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However, one day when she was playing, she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vet who said she needed a rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore. However, she was still happy to be with her owner. One day, the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from then on. There once was a little boy who had a goat named Benny. Benny was a very friendly goat and loved to play with the little boy. One day, Benny ate all of the boy's clothes. Benny was sorry for doing this and promised not to do it again. Benny was always happy to be around the little boy and enjoyed spending time with him. Alligators are large reptiles that live and swim in the southeastern United States. They can grow to be 15 feet long and weigh over 1,000 pounds. Alligators have a thick, scaly skin that is between green and brown in color. They have long, narrow snouts and sharp teeth. Alligators are good swimmers and can stay underwater for up to an hour. They hunt for fish, frogs, and other small animals. Alligators are dangerous animals and should be avoided. There was once a cutie who ate too many crunchy things and developed a terrible case of gas. Whenever she let out a groan, everyone around her would point and laugh. She tried to mask the smell with perfume, but nothing seemed to work. She even tried standing on her head, but the only thing that seemed to help was holding her breath. Unfortunately, whenever she reacted to something, her gas would escape and the cycle would start all over again. The goat you adopted is going to destroy the clues you had sewn for the king. This is not a real story because goats are not known to eat clothes. Even if they did, your clothes would not be destroyed. Once there was a little boy who owned a goat. The boy loved his goat and took very good care of him. One day, the king decided that he wanted to adopt the goat and make him his pet. The boy was sad to lose his goat, but was happy that he would have a good home with the king. The king gave the boy a task to do each day to take care of the goat. The boy enjoyed doing this and was happy to help out. One day, the boy went to pick up the goat and found out that all of his clothes were shredded in a mess on the ground. The boy knew that the goats must have eaten them. The boy was very sad that his clothes had been destroyed, but he was glad that the goats had a good home and was taken care of by the king. One day, a little boy found a goat in the forest. The goat was very hungry, so the boy took it home and fed it. The goat was so grateful that it followed the boy everywhere he went. One day, the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if it could stay at the castle. The boy was sad to say goodbye to his goat, but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There was once a wasp who lived in the savanna. One day, she made the choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day, a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle to meet the king. When she got there, she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet Bee and they became friends quickly. The next day, Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time, she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what happened, but she knew she would have to be more careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time, there was a dog who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However, one day, when she was playing, she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vet who said she needed a rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore, however, she was still happy to be with her owner. One day, the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some of its food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere from then on. What's your favorite book? Wow, you read good books. Do you like your books? Yes, I like reading. What's your favorite book? I like reading Nancy Drew. Have you read all of the books? No, not all of the books, but I read a few of them and I really like them. Which number did you come in? I can't remember. I just look at the title of it and depending on if it sounded interesting, I would read the book. I also like reading Secret Savant. What's your favorite book? I like reading Angelic. What's your favorite book? Okay, well, it has three girls. Well, this is a Nancy Drew story. It has three girls, Nancy and her two cousins. And she was a very athletic girl. She was a very athletic girl. And all of them loved going on adventures. One day they met an old man who was a very mysterious man. While she was helping one of her aunts at the abode she lives in, Nancy was just cleaning for her aunt. And a mysterious man came and he offered to help clean up the place as well. But during that time Nancy was trying to search for a bell because she wanted to get a collection of bells. And when she met the man she recognized him from somewhere. So Nancy asked the man his name and she remembered the name, but she couldn't remember who exactly the man was. So once they got to know each other well, he started talking about some bell in a cave. And Nancy was very intrigued by the story. So her and her cousins decided to go into the cave and explore the cave. Little did they know that it had a lot of things awaiting for them. So they went inside the cave and while they were trying to get the bell, one of the cousins noticed that this place was a very creepy place. It was dark and they heard weird whispers. And while they were searching inside the cave, flood, not floodwaters, but they were in an ocean. And ocean waters began coming inside of the cave while they heard really scary whispers. And once they came out of the cave they noticed that Nancy was gone. So they went searching for Nancy all over the place. They even went on the boat that they came with in the ocean to go to the cave and they couldn't find Nancy. And then they heard a sound coming from above the cave and they recognized that it was Nancy's voice. So both of them were calling out for her name and she then saw a man who was with Nancy and was waving to the both of them. So Nancy made her way together with the man down the cave and both of them arrived safely down the cave. Nancy and her cousins got into the boat and went back home and they never ever went back to the cave again. Interesting story. Let's see your head boot. What is the head boot? How do you like to move the head boot? Well, what our teacher does is she gives us weekly tests to test if we actually are learning our work. And we did a mathematics practice test and we also did a language arts prepositions test. So the mathematics test, I would say it was simple and the language arts was also simple. And then before she gave us the test, she let us review the prepositions and she let us go through our maths notebook. And I read the formulas for mean, conversions, anything that I think would have came. And I also went through the prepositions chapter and I scored 100 out of 118 points and I also tied with another girl and we both got head girl badge. Basically, weekly test just tells our teacher if we are learning our work and if we do good, she would give us a head girl badge or a head boy badge. Both of them have similar responsibilities. So a head girl would always check up on other people to make sure that they are doing their work. Sometimes we would pick them up on percentage decimal fraction tables and whenever the teacher isn't there, we would be like a substitute teacher. So we tell the children exactly what to revise and what to do while the teacher isn't there. And the head boy also does that. So they both have the same responsibilities. Yes, there would be two head girls. Well, depending on how many girls that go on the test, we have about six head girl badges. So if it has three girls who did good, they would get three head girl badges and it would have three meaning. So would the boys. So the girls would just go ahead and tell the children in the class what to do if there isn't any head boys. And if there's head boys but no head girls, the head boys would tell the students about what to do. To be honest, I am a little worried because we are doing practice testing class and we are doing Ram Logan Mahabir. We only did Penacool once but I did good in the Penacool test because I do Penacool with my dad but Ram Logan Mahabir has a little more complex practice test to do. But every day I come home, I practice the test with my dad so I do think I'm going to do good for SCA, especially creative writing. I am good with creative writing but language and comprehension is what I get a little trouble with which brings down my mark. And my dad recently hired an assistant for me to help with comprehension and my marks have been going up with comprehension. So I am confident about SCA but at the same time a little worried. I want to go to Luchmiggles but I also wanted to go to SAGS but my dad made me go to Luchmiggles instead. What other things do you like to do besides reading? What other things do you like to watch on Netflix? I like mysteries but I also like mysteries so I love to watch shows with mysteries. Especially how I read in the anti-jew book. That's how I like mysteries and stuff. Do you have any favorite food that you like to eat at Batmul? KFC. I like to eat KFC a lot. Spicy for sure. Oh, you like spicy food? Yes. Do you have pets? Yes, I have one pet. I have a pet cat and her name is Kelsey. What do you do to take care of this pet? Well, from time to time every six months I bathe her and I have to clean her litter every morning when I wake up. After I drink tea and stuff I go to clean her litter. I put food for her, I clean her water bowl and then I put water for her. I also play with her in my spare time besides watching television and doing karate. Are you her sibling? No, only child. How is that? Good because from a lot of people I've heard that siblings give a lot of trouble. Yes, so I like being the only child but with the cat it's like I have another sibling. I want her to go to St. Joseph's Convent too. I also want to show you and we did a lot of TV express and we did a lot of TV shows. That helped with creative writing and it helped with the conversation. We did a lot of fanfics and it was a fun little one. Yes, I will. You want to do it? Yes. That's the time we have here for the impression. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.