 So, hi, my name is Kedur Rahim Trotman. I am in standard 5. I attend Shogunate Government Primary School. As the sun crept over the eastern sky, casting a rosy glow on the trees and hilltops, a little sprung out of his cotton hammock, leapt over several low wooden stools, edged past his father's hammock and crept out through the back of the adrupa. He raced down to the centre of the village and when he reached the priest hut, stopped. He looked around expectantly at the neat circle of adrupas which surrounded him. All of them looked alike with their thatch roofs reaching low, almost touching the ground. No human sound was audible, only the screeching of an owl and the low hooting of some jungle bird. He waited, still no sign of anyone. Quickly, he put his fingers to his mouth and let out a long, shrill whistle. Seconds later, he got his first reply, one whistle. Then another, and then several more. He knew now that his friends were awake and would come to meet him. Today was a special day for Namba and his friends. It was the day that the hunting party left and it was their task to help them in the preparations. When the men left the village, they were practically in charge. They had to help protect the women and girls and see that everything went well. They felt proud to be given such responsibilities, Namba especially, since he was the oldest among the boys. He walked into the priest hut and looked around. He felt a special joy this morning, for with each hunt that took place, the chances of joining it grew increasingly greater. Namba snapped out of his daydream. It was one of his friends who was calling him. Born on 2nd October 1869, Mohandas Gandhi belonged to a privileged class in India. His father, though Prime Minister of several leading Indian states, had little education. Yet he taught his son, Mohandas, the values of kindness, honesty and humility. These were to prepare him for a life of great compassion towards others. Mohandas, as a boy, was no brilliant student at school. In fact, he found it difficult to learn multiplication tables. He later wrote, My intellect must have been sluggish and my memory raw. As he recounted his primary school days, he had books with his sole companion, and he was very shy and lacked confidence to talk to anyone. As he grew older, he found friends and played in the streets and by the sea. He spun tops and played with rubber balloons. He was quiet and obedient and learned to carry out the orders of his elders without any question. While at high school, Mohandas married a pretty little girl called Kash Thurabi. Both of them were only 13 at the time. The marriage at such a tender age was nothing strange. Child marriages were arranged by Hindu families and were then customary all over India. In spite of his early marriage, Mohandas continued his education. In fact, many of his friends were learned and wise men. Whenever they came to visit, he would sit quietly in a corner and listen attentively as they expounded their great wisdom. Mohandas was particularly impressed by one of the beliefs of these wise men. It stated that in all religions there is good and that people's beliefs should be respected. On completing secondary school, Mohandas went to England to study law. This was to become a great experience for young Mohandas. He had to adjust his Hindu ways to the lifestyle of the English. The Masters Cicero of Dominica The first people to live on the island of Dominica were the Iraq Indians. Once there was an Iraq Indian chief called Cicero who lived in a cave on a hillside. A group of hunters secretly followed the Indian chief one day and his path led them to the cave on the hill where he lived. After arguing among themselves, they decided to venture into the cave. They found him covered with the coloured feathers of a parrot. The hunters were impressed by the deep green and violent feathers and they thought he must have divine powers. So they started to worship him by praying to him and asking him to tell the future. Soon they began to ask him favours. In order to grant their wishes, he gave them the things that they had asked for from his cave. One day a woman came to him and asked him to give her a child. Knowing he did not have a child in his cave, he became afraid that others would find out he did not have supernatural powers. Later that day he kept out of his cave and out to sea. Some say that the steps from his cave that led to the sea can still be seen between the caribou lands of Wakarisi and Caribou and Caribou. From out of the clouds a large full-bodied green bird flew over the quiet blue of the Caribbean Sea. Early morning mists were slowly rising from the waters. The greenish blue head of the bird turned towards rubbed volcanic peaks shrouded in clouds. Arachne Arachne was a maiden who became famous throughout Greece. Though she was neither rich nor beautiful nor did she come from any great city. She lived in an obscure little village and her father was a humble dyer of wool. In this he was very skillful producing many varied seeds. Above all he was famous from the clear bright scarlet which is made from shellfish and which was the most glorious of all the colours in ancient Greece. Even more skillful than her father was Arachne. It was her task to spin the fleecy world into a fine soft thread and to weave it into cloth under high standing loom within the cottage. Arachne was small and pale from much work. Her eyes were light and her hair was a dust brown. Yet she was quick and graceful. Her fingers roughened as they went so fast that it was hard to follow their flickering movements. So soft and even was her thread. So fine her cloth. So gorgeous her embroidery. That soon her producers products were known all over Greece. No one had seen the likes of them before. At last Arachne's fame became so great that people used to come from far and wide to watch her working. Even the graceful nature goddesses would steal in from stream or forest and peep shyly through the dark doorway. They watched in wonder the white arms of Arachne as she stood at the loom and threw the shuttle from hand to hand between the hanging threads. They watched as she drew out the long wool. Fine as hair as she sat spinning. Surely the goddess Athena herself must have taught her. People would murmur to one another who else could know the secret of such marvelous skill. Arachne was used to being wondered at and she was immensely proud of the skill that had brought so many to look on her. Ms. Cornroop looked with some interest at the group of five students huddled together at the back of the class. It was research time and the five standard five students seemed deeply engrossed in conversation. What were they up to? Were they planning something mischievous or just old talking as they usually did? Ms. Cornroop decided not to pry. It was indeed a wise decision. For the mini conference really concerned her. Carla had been reliably informed that Friday would be Ms. Cornroop's birthday. Ms. Cornroop was affectionately called Ms. Cornsoup by her students. They all admired and respected her greatly. Friday was to be her birthday and the students agreed to have a surprise birthday party for her. In order for it to be a real surprise they decided that no one else in the class would be told about their plan. It was agreed therefore that the five of them would be responsible for the eats and drinks of the party. Rhea would bring sandwiches for 25 people. Hafizah and Carla would each ask their mother to bake a cake. Mark said he would ask his dad to make 25 mini rotis. On hearing this the others responded by saying, oh, they all knew how tasty Mark's dad makes mini rotis. And anxiously looked forward to this mouthwatering experience once more. Trevor indicated that he would supply the drinks. He would make a special fruit punch. Anasie and his family. As happens to everybody, Anasie got married. His wife was named Crooksy and she was a really pretty little lady. They got along like a knife and a fork. Crooksy did everything for Anasie. Cleaned the house and swept the yard and cooked the food and everything went along merrily. But as also happens, hard times came. Anasie and Crooksy were short of food which was a thing Anasie couldn't bear. Now Crooksy had a pig that she kept in the yard and the hungrier Anasie got the more his mind turned towards that pig. He dared not to ask Crooksy to kill the pig because it was a prized possession. But the thought of roast pork was with him night and day and the sight of the pig made him tremble. Anasie got so anxious that he finally took to his bed. He lay there with his eyes closed, holding his belly and groaning. Crooksy did her best to look after him. She boiled up tea from the leaf of life. She put cold flannels on his head. Nothing worked. Anasie just lay there and groaned. Crooksy was at her wits. End. Crooksy whispered Anasie. I'm thinking fast. You must get a doctor. So Crooksy shut out to look for the doctor. As soon as she was gone, Anasie jumped out of the window and sprinted into the bush. So it was that Crooksy, coming along the road, met Anasie, disguised as a doctor, coming the other way. The Great Raid. Even though Takwair had passed the rites of Ordey without showing fear or crying out in He was not too sure that he wanted to go on his first raid. On those raids, his tribe, the Caribs and Kalingu, would raid the arraks of Luku-Kari. As they recall, the Kalingu would take captives home to become slaves. The night before his first raid, Takwair went to show his war paint and feathers to an old Luku-Kari woman named Luanua. She lived at the edge of the village. She had been captured in an earlier raid, but Takwair's father, the chef, had spared her because she had saved Takwair's life when he was a newborn baby. Still, she lived alone at the edge of the village because she was despised. When Takwair saw her, she was pounding cassava, but she let the pest wrestle when he spoke. Greetings, Luanua. As you see, I am now a warrior and tomorrow I go on a raid, the biggest ever made. Indeed, you look like a warrior, Luanua said. With your new scars and your bright paint, your new tipped arrows and your expression of pride, but in your heart, do you wish to kill and maim and tear young girls from their home lands? To live a life of slavery under cruel masters? Of course that is what I wish. That is the destiny of my race. To fight, to plunder, to capture, and to kill, and to feast on the dead of our enemies, he added. The Advantage of Knowledge Many, many years ago, a rich man, Jean Claude, and a poor man, Henry Dorant, lived side by side in Bordeaux, France. Jean Claude had a fine house and garden, houses and carriages. He also had many servants to wait on him, but he was ignorant and silly. Henry Dorant, though poor, in gold and silver, was rich in knowledge and understanding. His learning and wisdom helped him to understand people. He was also appreciated the differences between ugliness and beauty, good and evil. The two men argued endlessly. The rich man said that money was more important than anything else in the world. He claimed that if anyone had money, he could buy whatever he wanted. What good is all your wisdom? He often asked his neighbor. If you haven't the money to buy the things you need, the wise poor man was too discreet to try to explain his point of view to the silly rich man. He knew he was quite incapable of understanding it. One day, war broke out. The entire town was in ruins. After the fighting ended, both men were stripped of everything. They were forced to flee for their lives and seek refuge in another place. The rich man, without his belongings, was materially poor indeed. He now had nothing. Furthermore, wherever he went, he was scorned for his ignorance. The wise man, however, maintained his learning and wisdom. No one could ever take that from the rich store of knowledge and his mind and his heart. The first coconut tree. Many years ago, in the village of Tamaru, there lived a beautiful young girl. Her name was Ina, and she was the daughter of a blind woman. They lived in a near cave which had a stream flowing through it, and at dawn and sunset, Ina loved to bathe in the stream. Now, there were several young men who wished to marry Ina because of her beauty. She was only interested in looking after her mother. One day, while she was bathing in her favorite part of the stream, an enormous eel startled her by coming very close and touching her. Day after day, the eel would do this. Indeed, Ina grew quite accustomed to the eel's presence. She was admiring her new friend one day. When, to her surprise, something strange began to happen. The eel stood up and changed into a handsome boy. I am tuna, he said. God and protector of freshwater eels. Because of your beauty and charm, I have left my gloomy home to win your love. Please be mine. Overcome by the young man's beauty, Ina could only nod her head. From that day, tuna became her lover in its human form. Always, though, he changed back into an eel when he returned to the stream. As time passed, tuna began to grow unhappy. He knew he was being unfair to Ina because he would never stay with her for long. Because he loved her and thought it broke his heart, he decided to leave. Sweet Peppers, Manon Muenchang This is a story about two gardeners, Somda and Sing, who live in the village of El Sakur. Fifty years before, Sing had been born in Silver Mill, San Juan, the son of a gardener. Even before he learned to count, he could tell you the exact time it took the different seeds to grow. He had little schooling and could read and write only enough to get by, but there was nothing he did not know about the earth and the crops he planted. Old Somda was Sing's neighbour. He lived in a small mud hut which he built by himself. At the time of his marriage, but now his wife, Mai, was dead. He lived alone. He missed her and the aloo pies she made. No one had ever been able to make aloo pies like Mai. The walls of the hut were whitewashed both inside and outside. On the inside walls, there were many pictures of all scenes of India. Somda kept the hut very clean, sweeping it every day. With a broom he had bought from Sing's wife, Rukmin. Somda was a very short man with bent legs. There was not one tooth in his mouth, yet he could eat anything. Sing's little boy, Ramesh, saw him eating whole cucumbers, skin and all, and roasted corn. How can he do it? Ramesh asked Sing. Old Somda's gums are as hard as a rock stone over there, and I wouldn't like him to bite me. One day, the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party, and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat, and asked if it could stay at the castle. The boy was sad to say goodbye to his goat, but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There once was a wasp who lived on the savannah. One day she made the choice to extend her savannah side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day, a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle to meet the king. When she got there, she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet Bee, and they became friends quickly. The next day, Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time, she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what had happened, but she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time, there was a dog who lived to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However, one day when she was playing, she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vet who said she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore. However, she was still happy to be with her owner. One day, the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some of her food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from then on. There once was a little boy who had a goat named Benny. Benny was a very friendly goat and loved to play with the little boy. One day, Benny ate all of the boy's clothes. Benny was sorry for doing this and promised not to do it again. Benny was always happy to be around the little boy and enjoyed spending time with him. Alligators are large reptiles that live in swamps in the southeastern United States. They can grow to be over 15 feet long and weigh over 1,000 pounds. Alligators have a thick, scaly skin that is between green and brown in color. They have long, narrow snout and sharp teeth. Alligators are good swimmers and can stay underwater for up to an hour. They hunt for fish, frogs, and other small animals. Alligators are dangerous animals and should be avoided. There once was an agouti who ate too many crunchy things and developed a terrible case of gas. Whenever she let out a groan, everyone around her would point and laugh. She tried to mask the smell with perfume, but nothing seemed to work. She even tried standing on her head, but the only thing that seemed to help was holding her breath. Unfortunately, whenever she reacted to something, her gas would escape and the cycle would start all over again. When the boy went to ask for a loan, he had a great feeling about it. He walked in with a softener grasp and acted like he knew he would be accepted. He extended his hand out and waited for the answer. The boy had always wanted to act. And when he was finally able to, he was able to ask for a loan. Accepted into a great acting school, he was over the moon. His parents were supportive, but they did not have the money to pay for it outright. So the boy took out alone. He was a little nervous about it, but he knew it was worth it. He was determined to make the most of his opportunity and extend himself as much as possible. The boy was very excited to get his loan accepted, but he had worked hard to get his grasp on acting and was very excited to see how far he could get with it. I have always been a goal-oriented person. When I set my sights on something, I put all of my effort into achieving it. This has led to me being very successful in many areas of my life. One area where this is particularly true is in my lifting. I am a competitive power lifter and have flown all over the world to compete. I have a lovely challenge of lifting and a feeling of accomplishment that comes with setting and achieving goals. I am also very crisp in my reaction to things quickly. This has helped me in my career as well as in other areas of my life. I am able to extend myself beyond what is accepted as normal and achieve great things. This has allowed me to mask my fear and present myself as a confident and successful person. I have always been a driven person. When I set my mind to something, I usually achieve it because I am very proactive. I never give up easily and I always find a way to get things done. My friends know that if they need help with anything, they can come to me and I will always be there for them. I am also very independent and I like to do things on my own. I am not the type of person to ask for help unless I really need it. I was given a long and difficult task, but I figured it out quickly and adopted a positive attitude. At first, it seemed beyond my grasp, but I flexed my knowledge muscles and in a single minute covered all the points. I enjoy the sensation of the wind rushing past me as I run. It is a swifter way to get around than walking and I can cover more ground in less time. I sometimes gasp for breath as I run, but I keep going. I am electing to extend my running time today. I hope I can keep up the pace and not get too tired. I am among the first to finish the race. I remove my mask and enjoy the feeling of accomplishment. I was vexed when my birthday toy turned out to be a shirt. I had asked for a gift that I could grasp and play with. I had waited so long for it, but now I did not know how to act. Should I tell my mother? That I was sad. I think it might hurt her feelings. The sculpture was a long tiny toy that gift shops would love to sell. It was easy to grasp and carry, but it vexed many people. They would ask why it was so long and why it was so expensive. It was a toy that was meant to be enjoyed, but it was not always easy to do so. I enjoyed running because it is a swifter way to get from place to place. When I am running, I sometimes gasp for air. But it is a good feeling because it means I am working hard. I am also electing to extend my life by running instead of sitting around all day. This is something that is accepted among runners. We do not care what we look like when we are running because we are wearing a mask of determination. Enjoying the swifter pace, I gasped for air on electing my extend in my run. What is your sister? Is she older? Did she go to this school? Yes, she did actually. Where is she now? She is going to St. Joseph College. She is almost ready to go to university. She is 18. So she is doing KIP? Yes. And you will do SCA? Next year. Are you nervous? I would say nervous, yes. Your teachers give you a new practice class? So when you do the practice class you will get less nervous. You will get more confident. So just relax and do as many practices as you can. Do you know what school you want to go to? The presentation college, Chagonas. Why do you remember it? Because it is nearby and it is a first choice school. It is the best school in Chagonas. I go a lot as well. I want to go to the university. Do you play any sports? Yes, I play tennis. Long tennis or table tennis? Long tennis. Where do you play? In Tuna Puna. Do you have a club? Not yet. Where? There is a court somewhere. Do you know any other people? No. Who are you from? Do you know anybody else? A few people. Do you watch tennis on TV? Not really. The famous players? I watch the famous players sometimes. Tell me about some famous players. There is Novak Djokovic and Roger Federer. And there is also Nidal. The big three. But one of them retired. That is Roger. And Nidal I think he is almost retired. He is almost retired. So many people. The big three. Do you like watching them play? Yes. Which one is your favorite? I would say Federer. And he is a very nice guy. Very quiet nice guy. Nidal is a funny guy. Yes, I guess so. Do you want to be a professional player like that? I want to be the best I could be. And if I get the opportunity and I get the time. I would like to pursue it. You can try your best. And try to be the best. Do you have a coach? Yes. So you try your best and see how far you can go. Do you play in any competitions? Not yet. You just play like other kids? Do you play doubles too or singles? Sometimes doubles. Very nice. And at home do you like to watch TV? Or movies? Yes, when I get a chance to. I don't know what you see. You have to look at. When you get a chance what kind of shows or movies do you like to watch? Mostly comedies. Tell me about a comedy you saw yourself. Well, there is a series. It is Broken Nine Nine. I watch it a lot. Yes, Broken Nine Nine. And... The boy guy. Terry Crews. He is on that show? Andrew? Yes, Terry Crews is on that show. And Andy Samberg is on that show. Yes, Andy Samberg is there too. He is a funny guy. So besides that series, do you like other movies too? What do you like to read? I really can't think of any other movies right now. What do you like to read? Read? Um... Only specific books I like to read. Like what? Like Hardy Boys. Um... What else? There was a book called Bepple Tater I read once which was very funny. And... A few comic books. I read when I was younger. And you said you were in London, right? So your last birthday was in London. How did you do? I really just stayed home and celebrated it. I ate some cake and that was it. So you were just with your family? Yes. Okay, very nice. So what kind of food do you like to eat? Pizza, shishimi, and alfredo. Sashimi too? Yes, shishimi. There's this place in Kirap. I can't remember the name. But the food there is really good. But do you like the food you get at home? Do you like the food you like to go to buy outside? I like both equally. What do you like at home? At home? Well, she makes good pay lao. Bread pizza. And what else? She makes good omelettes as well. So I wanted to hear you. And now this recording will help other children to read. So it's very helpful for what you're doing. So thank you for what you're doing. And I'm interested to see you because of the available treatment. No problem. Thank you again. I will tell you what you want to do and you'll be successful. Thank you. You too. I took very good care of him. One day the king decided he wanted to adopt the goat and make him his pet. The boy was sad to lose his goat because he was happy that he would have a good home with the king. The king gave the boy a task to do each day to take care of the goat. The boy enjoyed doing this and was happy to help out. One day the boy went to pick up the goat and found that all of his clothes were shredded in a mess on the ground. The boy knew that the goat must have eaten them. The boy was very sad that his clothes had been destroyed. But he was glad that the goat had a good home and was being taken care of by the king. One day a little boy found the goat in the forest. The boy was very hungry so the boy took it home and fed it. The goat was so grateful that it followed the boy everywhere he went. One day the boy and the goat came across the castle. The king of the castle was having a party and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if it could stay at the castle. The boy was sad to say goodbye to his goat but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There once was a wasp who lived under Savannah. One day she made the choice to extend her softener side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle to meet the king. When she got there she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet Bee and they became friends quickly. The next day Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time she found out the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what had happened but she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time there was a dog who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However one day she was playing, she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vet who said she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore however she was still happy to be with the owner. One day the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some of her food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from now on.