 My name is Daniel Samuel. I attend Chagonas Government, Class Standard 5. Arachne was a maiden who became famous throughout Greece. Though she was neither rich nor poor, nor beautiful, nor did she come from any great city, she lived in an obscure little village and her father was a humble dyer of wool. In this he was very skillful, producing many varied shades for ride-shades. Above all, he was famous for the clear bright scarlet, which is made from shellfish and which was the most glorious of all the colours in ancient Greece. Even more skillful than her father was Arachne. It was her task to spin the fleecy wool into a fine soft thread and to weave it into cloth on the high standing loom within the cottage. Arachne was small and pale from much work. Her eyes were light and her hair was a dusty brown. Yet she was quick and graceful. Her fingers roughened as they were, bent so fast that it was hard to follow their flickering movements. So soft and even was her thread, so fine her cloth, so gorgeous her embroidery, that soon her products were known all over Greece. No one had seen the likes of them before. Alas, Arachne's fame became so great that people used to come from far and wide to watch her work. Even the graceful nature goddess would steal in from stream or forest and peep shyly through the dark doorway. They watched in wonder the white arms of Arachne as she stood at the loom and threw the shuttle from hand to hand between the hanging threads. They watched as she drew out the long wool, fine as thread, as she sat pinning shyly the goddess, a teen herself, must have taught her. People would rumour to one another who else could know the secret of such marvellous skill. Arachne was used to being wondered at and she was immensely proud of the skill that had brought so many to look on her. Born on 2nd October 1869, Mohandas Kandhi belonged to a privileged class in India. His father, though Prime Minister of several leading Indian states, had little education. Yet he taught his son Mohandas the values of kindness, honesty and humility. These were to prepare him for a life of great compassion towards others. Mohandas, a boy, was no brilliant student at school. In fact, he found it difficult to learn multiplication tables. He later wrote, My intellect must have been sluggish and my memory raw, as he recounted his primary school days. Yet books were his sole companion, as he was very shy and lacked confidence to talk to anyone. As he grew older, he found friends and played in the streets and by the sea. He spun tops and played with rubber balloons. He was quiet and obedient and learned to carry out the orders of his elders without any question. While at high school, Mohandas married a pretty little girl called Katsubai. Both of them were only 13 at the time. The marriage at such a tender age was nothing strange. Child marriages were arranged by Hindu families and were then customary all over India. In spite of his early marriage, Mohandas continued his education. In fact, many of his friends were learned and wise men. Whenever they came to visit, he would sit quietly in a corner and listen attentively as they expounded their great wisdom. Mohandas was particularly impressed by one of the beliefs of these wise men. It stated that in all regions there is good and that people beliefs should be respected. On completing secondary school, Mohandas went to England to study law. This was to become a great experience for young Mohandas. He had to adjust his Hindu ways to the lifestyle of the English. The first people to live on the island of Dominica were the Arawak Indians. Once there was an Arawak Indian chief called Cicero who lived in a cave on a hillside. A group of hunters secretly followed the Indian chief one day and his path led them to the cave on the hill where he lived. After arguing among themselves, they decided to venture into the cave. They found him covered with the colored feathers of a parrot. The hunters were impressed by the deep green and violet feathers and they thought he must have divine powers. So they started to worship him by praying to him and asking him to tell the future. Soon they began to ask him favors in order to grant their wishes. He gave them the things they had asked for from his cave. One day a woman came to him and asked him to give her a child. Knowing he did not have a child in his cave, he became afraid that others would find out he did not have supernatural powers. Late that night he crept out of his cave and set out to sea. Some say that the steps from his cave that led into the sea can still be seen between the Caribbean lands of Wakasi and Kribu. From out of the clouds, a large full-bodied green bird flew over the quiet blue of the Caribbean Sea. Early morning mist slowly rose from the waters. The greenish blue head of the bird turned towards rugged volcanic peaks shrouded in clouds. Miss Cornrope looked with some interest at the five group of students huddled together at the back of the class. It was recess time and the five standard five students seemed deeply engrossed in conversation. What were they up to? Were they planning something mischievous or just old talking? As they usually did, Miss Cornrope decided not to pry. It was indeed a wise decision for the mini-conference really concerned her. Carla had been reliably informed that Friday would be Miss Cornrope's birthday. Miss Cornrope was affectionately called Miss Corn Soup by her students. They all admired and respected her greatly. Friday was to be her birthday and the students agreed to have a surprise birthday party for her. In order for it to be a real surprise, they decided that no one else in the class would be told about their plan. It was agreed, therefore, that the five of them would be responsible for the eats and drinks of the party. Rhea would bring sandwiches for 25 people. Hafizah and Carla would each ask their mother to bake a cake. Mark said he would ask his dad to make 25 mini-roti's. On hearing this, the others responded by saying, Oh, they all knew how tasty Mark's dad made his mini-roti's and anxiously looked forward to this mouth-watering experience once more. Trevor indicated that he would supply the drinks. He would make a special fruit punch. As the sun crept over the eastern sky, casting a rousy glow on the trees and the hilltops, a little Arawak boy sprung out of his cotton hammock, leaped over several low wooden stools, edged past his father's hammock and crept out through the back of the a-dropper. He raced down to the centre of the village and when he reached the priest hut stopped. He looked around expectantly at the neat circle of a-droppers which surrounded him. All of them looked alike with their touched roofs reaching low, almost touching the ground. No human sound was audible, only the screeching of an owl and the low hooting of some juggle bird. He waited, still no sight of anyone. Quickly he put his fingers to his mouth and let out a long shrill whistle. Seconds later he got his first reply, one whistle, then another and then several more. He knew now that his friends were awake and would come to meet him. Today was a special day for Nama and his friends. It was the day that the hunting party left and it was their task to help in preparations. When the men left the village they were practically in charge. They had to help protect the women and girls and see that everything went well. They felt proud to be given such responsibilities, Nama especially, since he was the oldest among the boys. He walked into the priest hut and looked around. He felt a special joy this morning for, with each hunt that took place, his chances of joining it grew increasingly greater. Anansi and his family As happens to be everybody, Anansi got married. His wife was named Kruksai and she was a really pretty little lady. They got along like a knife and fork. Kruksi did everything for Anansi, She cleaned the house and swept the yard and cooked the food and everything went along merrily. But as all so happens, hard times came and Anansi and Kruksi were short of food, which was a thing Anansi could not bear. Now Kruksi had a pig that she kept in the yard and the hungrier Anansi got, the more his hand turned towards the pig. He dared not ask Kruksi to kill the pig because it was her prized possession, but the thought of roast pork was with him night and day and the sight of the pig made him tremble. Anansi got so anxious that he finally took to his bed. He lay there with his eyes closed, holding his belly and groaning. Kruksi did her best to look after him. She boiled up tea made from the leaf of life. She put cold flanels on his head. Nothing worked. Anansi just lay there and groaned. Kruksi was at her wit's end. Kruksi whispered, Anansi, I'm sinking fast. You must get the doctor. So Kruksi set out to look for the doctor. As soon as she was gone, Anansi jumped out of the window and sprinted into the bush. So it was that Kruksi, coming along the road, met Anansi, disguised as a doctor, coming the other way. Even though Tokwaya had passed the rites of ordeal without showing fear or crying out in pain, he was not too sure that he wanted to go on his first raid. On those raids, his tribe, the Caribs or Kalinago, would raid the Arawaks or Lukukari as they were called. The Kalinago would take captives home to become slaves. The night before his first raid, Tokwaya went to show his war pain and fed us to an old Lukukari woman named Luanwa. She lived at the edge of the village. She had been captured in an earlier raid, but Tokwaya's father, the sheaf, had spared her because she had saved Tokwaya's life when he was a newborn baby. Still, she lived alone at the edge of the village because she was despised. When Tokwaya saw her, she was pounding cassava, but she let the pestle rest when he spoke. Greetings Luanwa. As you see, I am now a warrior and tomorrow I go on a raid, the biggest ever made. Indeed, you look like a warrior, Luanwa said. Without your new scars, your heart, do you wish to kill and maim and tear young girls from their homelands to live a life of slavery under cruel masters? Of course, that is what I wish. That is the destiny of my race, to fight, to plunder, to capture and to kill and to feast on the dead of our enemies, he added. Many, many years ago, a rich man, Jean Claude and a poor man, Henry Durant, lived side by side in Bordeaux, France. Jean Claude had a fine house and garden, horses and carriages. He also had many servants to wait on him, but was ignorant and silly. Henry Durant, though poor in gold and silver, was rich in knowledge and understanding. His learning and wisdom helped him to understand people. He also appreciated the differences between ugliness and beauty, good and evil. The two men argued endlessly. The rich man said that money was more important than anything else in the world. He claimed that if anyone had money, he could buy whatever he wanted. What good is all your wisdom? He often asked his neighbour, if you haven't the money to buy the things you need. The wise poor man was too discreet to try explaining his point of view to the silly rich man. He knew he was quite incapable of understanding it. One day, war broke out. The entire town was in ruins after the fighting ended. Both men were striped of everything. They were both forced to flee for their lives and seek refuge in another place. The rich man, without his belongings, was materially poor. Indeed, he now had nothing. Furthermore, wherever he went, he was scorned for his ignorance. The wise man, however, maintained his learning and wisdom. No one could ever take that take from him. The rich store of knowledge in his mind and in his heart. The first coconut tree. Many years ago in the village of Tamaro, there lived a beautiful young girl. Her name was Inna and she was the daughter of a blind woman. They lived near a cave which had a stream flowing through it. And at dawn and sunset, Inna loved to bathe in the stream. Now there were several young men who wished to marry Inna because of her beauty. But she was only interested in looking after her mother. One day while she was bathing in her favorite part of the stream, an enormous eel startled her by coming very close and touching her. Day after day, the eel would do this. Indeed, Inna grew quite accustomed to the eel's presence. She was admiring her new friend one day when, to her surprise, something strange began to happen. The eel stood up and changed into a handsome boy. I am Tuna, he said. God and protector of all freshwater eels. Because of your beauty and charm, I've left my gloomy home to win your love. Please be mine. Overcome by the young man's beauty, Inna could only nod her head. From that day, Tuna became her lover in his human form. Always though, he changed back into an eel when he returned to the stream. As time passed, Tuna began to grow unhappy. He knew he was being unfair to Inna because he could never stay with her for long. Because he loved her and thought it broke his heart, he decided to leave. Sweet Peppers, Manure and Moonshine This is a story about two gardeners, Samda and Singh, who lived in the village of El Socorro. 50 years before Singh had been born in Silver Mill, Sandron, the son of a gardener, even before he learned to count, he could tell you the exact time it took the different seeds to grow. He had little schooling and could read and write only enough to get by. But there was nothing he did not know about the earth and the crops he planted. Old Samar was Singh's neighbor. He lived in a small mud hut which he built himself at the time of his marriage. But now his wife, Mae, was dead and he lived alone. He missed her and the aloo pies she made. No one had ever been able to make aloo pies like Mae. The walls of the hut were whitewashed, both inside and outside. Under inside walls there were many pictures, old scenes of India. Samda kept the hut very clean, sweeping it every day with a broom. He had both form size by rookmen. Samda was a very short man with bent legs. There was not one tooth in his mouth, yet he could eat anything. Singh's little size little boy, Ramesh, saw him eating whole cucumber with skin and oil and roasted corn. How can he do it? Ramesh asked Singh. Old Samda's gums are as hard as the rockstone over there and I wouldn't like him to bite me. One day the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if it could stay at the castle. The boy was sad to say goodbye to his goat but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There once was a wasp who lived on the savanna. One day she made the choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle to meet the king. When she got there she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet Bee and they became friends quickly. The next day Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what had happened but she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time there was a dog who lived who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However, one day when she was playing she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vet who said she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore. However, she was still happy to be with her owner. One day the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some of her food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from then on. There once was a little boy who had a goat named Benny. Benny was a very friendly goat and loved to play with the little boy. One day Benny ate all of the boy's clothes. Benny was sorry for doing this and promised not to do it again. Benny was always happy to be around the little boy and enjoyed spending time with him. Alligators are large reptiles that live in swamps in the southeastern United States. They can grow to be over 15 feet long and weigh over 1,000 pounds. Alligators have a thick scaly skin that is between green and brown in color. They have long, narrow snouts and sharp teeth. Alligators are good swimmers and can stay underwater for up to an hour. They hunt for fish, frogs and other small animals. Alligators are dangerous animals and should be avoided. There once was Anna Guti who ate too many crunchy things and developed a terrible case of gas. Whenever she let out a groan, everyone around her would point and laugh. She tried to mask the smell with perfume but nothing seemed to work. She even tried standing on her head but the only thing that seemed to help was holding her breath. Unfortunately, when she reacted to something, her gas would escape and cycle would start all over again. When the boy went to ask for a loan, he had a great feeling about it. He walked in with a softer grasp and acted like he knew he would be accepted. He extended his hand out and waited for the answer. The boy had always wanted to act and when he was finally accepted into a great acting school, he was over the moon. His parents were supportive but they did not have the money to pay for it outright so the boy took out a loan. He was a little nervous about it but he knew it was worth it. He was determined to make the most of his opportunity and extend himself as such as possible. The boy was very excited to get his loan accepted. He had worked hard to extend his grasp on acting and was very excited to see how far he could go with it. I have always been a goal-oriented person. When I set my sights on something, I put all my effort into achieving it. This has led to me being very successful in many areas of my life. One area where this is particularly true is in my lifting. I am a competitive power lifter and have flown all over the world to compete. I love the challenge of lifting and the feeling of accomplishment that comes with setting and achieving goals. I am also very crisp in my reaction to things quickly. This has helped me in my career as well as in other areas of my life. I am able to extend myself beyond what is accepted as normal and achieve great things. This has allowed me to mask my fear and present myself as a confident and successful person. I have always been a driven person. When I set my mind to something, I usually achieve it because I am very proactive. I never give up easily and I always find a way to get things done. My friends know that if they need help with anything, they can come to me and I will always be there for them. I am also very independent and I like to do things on my own. I am not the type of person to ask for help unless I really need it. I was given a long and difficult task but I figured it out quickly and adopted a positive attitude. At first it seemed beyond my grasp but I flexed my knowledge muscles and in a single minute covered all the points. I enjoyed the sensation of the wind rushing past me as I run. It's a swifter way to get around than walking and I can cover more ground in less time. I sometimes grasp for breath as I run but I keep going. I am electing to extend my run time today. I hope I can keep up the pace and not get too tired. I am among the first to finish the race. I removed my mask and enjoyed the feeling of accomplishment. I was vexed when my birthday toy turned out to be a shirt. I had asked for a gift that I could grasp and play with. I had waited so long for it but now I did not know how to act. Should I tell my mother that I was sad? I think it may hurt her feelings. The sculpture was a long, thin toy that gift shops loved to sell. It was easy to grasp and carry but it affected many people. They would ask why it was so long and why it was so expensive. It was a toy that was meant to be enjoyed but it was not always easy to do so. I enjoy running because it is a swifter way to get from place to place. When I am running, I sometimes grasp for air but it is good but it is a good feeling because it means I am working hard. I am also electing to extend my life by running instead of sitting around all day. This is something that is accepted among runners. We do not care what we look like when we are running because we are wearing a mask of determination. Enjoying the swifter pace, I grasp for air and elect to extend my run. The goat you adopted is going to destroy the clothes you had sewn for the king. This is not a real story because goats are known to eat clothes. Even if they did, your clothes would not be destroyed. Once there was a little boy who owned a goat. The boy loved his goat and took very good care of him. One day the king decided he wanted to adopt the goat and make him his pet. The boy was sad to lose his goat but was happy that he would have a good home with the king. The king gave the boy a task to do each day to take care of the goat. The boy enjoyed doing this and was happy to help out. One day the boy went to pick up the goat and found that all of his clothes were shredded in a mess on the ground. The boy knew that the goat must have eaten them. The boy was very sad that his clothes had been destroyed but he was glad that the goat had a good home and was being taken care of by the king. One day a little boy found a goat in the forest. The goat was very hungry so the boy took it home and fed it. The goat was so grateful that it followed the boy everywhere he went. One day the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if it could stay at the castle. The boy was so sad to say goodbye to his goat but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There once was a wasp who lived on the savanna. One day she made the choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle to meet the king. When she got there she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was so happy to meet Bee and they became friends quickly. The next day Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what had happened but she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time there was a dog who lived who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However one day when she was playing she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the fetch who said she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore. However she was still happy to be with her owner. One day the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some of her food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from then on. I just want to talk to you. Sorry, we just have a conversation. Just relax. What's your name? Daniel Samir. How old is Daniel? 12 years old. Do you have brothers and sisters? Yes, I have two brothers and two sisters. Are they older than you? Younger? I have one sister that is older than me and the other is a younger sibling. Are they in this school? No. Are you alone here? Yes. When you finish this school, what school do you want to go to? QRC. Green Serial College. Why do you want to go to QRC? I just really like how the school looks and because it prestigies the opportunities that it has. Have you ever visited this school? I visited it. I saw it many times when I went to San Fernando. Not San Fernando, my bad. In that area, Port of Spain. What's that area called? I forgot the name. The savannah. QRC is one of the big names. Very beautiful. Do you know that picture? Yes, Dr. Eric Williams. Who is he? He was our first Prime Minister. What school did he go to? QRC. He went to QRC. So you want to go to QRC. After QRC, when you go, do you have an idea what you want to be? I'm still thinking about it. Either I want to study medicine to become a doctor or get my own business. If you want to go to business, what kind of business do you want to be? I didn't think about it yet. You want to be a high tech business? Yes, something to do with software. Okay, like your kids? But you have to work hard. You have to study hard. Do you like to play sports? Sports, yes. Basketball. Where do you play basketball? I play basketball at home sometimes and sometimes in the school courtyard. Do you play for a team or anything? No. Do you want to continue playing basketball? Like in high school and afterwards? Do you want to be a professional player? Professional, yes. Do you know any professional players? Famous. I look at them. LeBron, Kobe, Shaq. Shaq retired, Kobe died. But LeBron is still playing. Who else is still playing? Lamelo Ball, Stephen Curry. Yes, Stephen Curry is still playing. Kevin Durant. Kevin Durant, Green. Yes, Draven and Green. All those guys are still playing. But when I was young, the big players in those days, they were all playing Magic Yon Seng. Magic Yon Seng. When I was young, he was playing. And Larry Bird and Michael Jordan. And those guys. But of course, all of them retired now. But anything you want to do, you have to work hard and put your mind to it. So you said you were 12 years old, right? So your last birthday, can you remember today? My last birthday, yes, I can remember. My mom made a pizza for me. She took me to shopping. And to buy clothes. And I got sick. So, yes, I got sick. So I didn't really get to do much stuff. But you said you were just a home-made pizza. Yes. So do you prefer home-made pizza or pizza? You like pizza, right? So what do you buy outside? Home-made pizza, but only the one my mom made. Okay. And what other food do you like? I like fast food they buy out or food prepared. Okay, so I like pizza. The one you buy out and the one home. But the stuff I like home is like sada and aloo. I make the sada myself. Really? Yeah, I can make it myself. It is a swell-on thing. Okay, very good. And my mom just makes the aloo. I like sada and aloo. Okay, very good. So how did you learn to cook? Learn to cook? What did you learn to cook? Not actually taught. I just used to look at my mom when she was doing stuff. And then she would allow me to go ask if I could do it. And she would watch me do it. And when I started doing it, good. She allowed me to do it. She still doesn't like when I do stuff with hot oil, I think. But she does allow me. Okay, so besides the sada, what else can you make? Besides sada, stew, of course I can boil rice and macaroni. I can make macaroni pie. I can't really think of them off the top of my head right now. But I could stew chicken. Okay, very good. Yeah. Okay, that's very good. Because most kids you age, they can't cook. So that's why you need to learn to cook. I even learned to cook when I was younger. But just like you, I just watch other people and try it. Okay, so thank you very much for reading. Now, while this is recording, we're going to use it. It's going to help other children learn how to read. It's very helpful, right? You finish everything, right? So you can do that. We're going to treat you, right? All right. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.