 Hi, my name is Shalun Baris. I am from Standard 5, Chaguanas Government Primary School. Born on 2nd October 1869, Madona Scaramani belonged to a privileged class in India. His father, through his prime of several leading Indian states, had a little education. Yet, he taught his son, Madona Mahonas, the values of kindness, honesty and humility. These were to prepare him for a life of great passion towards others. Mahonas, as a boy, was no school. In fact, he found it difficult to learn multiplication tables. He later wrote, My intellect must have been sluggish and my memory raw as he recounted his primary school days. Yet, books were his sole companion as he was very shy and lacked of confidence to talk to anyone. As he grew older, he found his friends and played in the streets by the sea. He spun tops and played with rubber balloons. He was quiet and obedient and learned to carry out the orders of his elders. Without any question, while at high school, Mahonas married a pretty little girl called Kastrabhai. Both of them were only two or three at the time. Marriage at such tender age was nothing strange. Child marriages were arranged by Hindu families and were then customary over India. In spite of his early marriage, Mahonas continued his education. In fact, many of his friends were wise men. Whenever they came to visit, he would sit quietly in a corner and listen attentively as they expounded their wisdom. Mahonas was particularly impressed by one of the beliefs of these wise men. It stated that all religions is their good and that people's beliefs should be respected. On completing secondary school, Mahonas went on to England to study law. This was to become great experience for young Mahonas and he had to adjust Hindu style of English. Harkin was a maiden who became famous throughout Greece. Though she was neither rich nor beautiful, she did not come from any great city. She lived in an obscure little village and her father was a humble gyre of wool. In this, he was very skilful, producing various shades. Above all, he was famous for the bright scarlet which is made from shellfish and which was the most glorious of the colours and in ancient Greece. Even more skilful than her father was Harkin. It was her task to spin the flacy wool into a fine soft thread to weave into cloth. On the high standing loom within the cottage, Harkin was more inclined from much work. Her eyes were light and her hair was a dusty brown. Yet she was quick and graceful. Her fingers rubbed as they were and so fast it was hard to follow. The flickering moments, soft and even was her thread, found her cloth so gorgeous to her embroidery. That soon her products were known all over Greece. No one had seen the likes of them before, at last. Anarchy's fame became so great that people used to come from far and wide to watch her working. Even the rich-fledged goddess would steal in from steam or forest and peep shyly through the dark doorway. They watched the wonder of the white arms of Harkin as she stood in the loom and threw shuttle from hand to hand between hanging threads. They watched as they grew a long fine az hair and she sat spinning. Surely the goddess and sin herself must have thought her people would know more to one another. Who else would know the secret of such marvelous skill? Anna was used to being wonderful at. She was immensely proud of her skill and that brought so many to look on her. As the sun crept over the eastern sky and the rosy glow on the trees and hilltops, a dark Arawak boy strung out his cotton hammock, leapt over several wooden stools, leapt past his father and his father's hammock, creaked out through the back of Jupa. He raced down the center of the village and when he reached the prized hut stopped. He looked he looked expectedly at the neat circle of Jupas which surrounded him. All of them looked alike with their thatched roofs reaching low almost touching the ground. No human was audible, only screeching of an owl and the low hooting of some jungle bird. He waited still no sign of anyone. He quickly put his fingers to his mouth and let long out. Sure whistles seconds later he got his first reply one whistle then another then several more. He knew now that his friends were awake and would come to meet him. Today was a special day for Namba and his friends. It was the day that the hunting party left and it was their task to help out preparations. When the men left the village they were practically in charge. They had to help and protect women and girls and see everything went well. They felt proud to be given such responsibilities, Namba especially since he was the oldest among the boys. He walked into the prized hut and looked around. He felt a special joy this morning for with each other the hut that took place as his chance of joining it grew increasingly greater. Oh the master says crazy of dominica the first people to live on the island of dominica were the arwak indians once there was an arwak indian chief called siskur who lived in a cave on a hillside a group of hunters secretly followed the indian chief one day and his path led him to a cave on the hill where he lived after arguing among themselves they decided to have an adventure to the cave they found him covered with the colored feathers of a parrot the hunters were impressed by the deep green and violent feathers and they broke and they thought he must have have divine powers so they started to worship him by praying to him and asking him to tell the future soon they began to ask him favors in order to grant their wishes he gave them things that they asked from him for escape one day woman came to him and asked him to give her a child knowing he did not have a child in his cave he became afraid of others that would find out he did not have supernatural powers late at night he crept out of his cape and set out to sea some say that the steps from his cave led out to the sea and can still be seen between the caribou lands of the sea and caribou from out of the clouds a large bloodied grain flew over the quiet blue caribbean sea early morning mist was slowly rising from the waters the greenish blue head of the birds turned towards rugged volcanic peaks and shredded the clouds the surprise mrs corner looked at some interest at the group of five students huddled together at the back of the class it was recess time and the five standard five students seemed deeply engrossed in conversation what were they what were they up to were they planning something she was or just talking as they usually did miss miss corner did not decide to pray it was indeed a wise decision for a mini conference for the mini conference really concerned her color had been reliably informed that friday would be mrs corner's corner's birthday mrs corner was affectionately called mrs corn soup by her students they all admired and respected her greatly friday was to be her birthday and students agreed to have a surprise birthday for her in order for it to be a real surprise they decided that no one else in the class would know about their plan it was agreed therefore that the stand five of them would be responsible for the eats and drinks of the party raya would bring sandwiches for 25 people if hepsia and color would eat would each ask them to be a kid mark said that he would ask of that for 25 mini realities on hearing this on his mini realities actually look forward to his mouthwatering experience once more travel decided that he would supply drinks and make a special fruit punch so the great raid even though the queer had passed the rite of order without showing fear crying or pain he was too sure that he wanted to go on his first raid those raids his tribes the caribs the carlingo would read the iraq's or kindle curry that they were called the car and who would take the captors home to become slaves the night before his first raid so caro was so his ward paint and they were feathers to go in an old country woman named luha car she lived at the edge feathers and all lucky woman named lanika she lived at the edge of first of the village she she had been captured by an early raid by taylor's father the chief he had spared her because she took quite a life when he was a newborn baby she lived alone on the edge of the village because she was distracted when together so she was pounded her carousel but she would put our ass on his book the greetings as you see i am not a warrior and tomorrow i can't the biggest ever made indeed you look like a warrior carousel with your new scars in your barb paint you new tipped arrows and your expression of pride but in your heart you wish to kill the maim and young girls from their homos to live sliver under cruel masters of course that is what i wish the dust is that is the destiny of my race to fight and plunder to capture and to kill and to feast on the land of our enemies he added the advantage of knowledge no during live the part side by side and in border france gene cloyd had had a fine house and green horses and carriages he also had many servers to wait upon him but he was ignorant and silly henry darant although poor in gold and silver was rich in knowledge and understanding his wisdom and helped him to understand people. He was also appreciated the difference between ugliness and beauty, good and evil, and important to do anything else in the world. He claimed that if anyone had money he could buy whatever he wanted. What's good in your wisdom? He often asked his neighbor. If you haven't the money to buy the things you needed. The wise poor man was too discreet to try and explain his point of view to their silly mean. But he knew he was quite incapable of understanding it. One day war broke out. The entire town was in ruins after the fighting ended. Both men had shipped up everything. They were both forced to flee their lives and to seek refuge in other places. The rich man, without his belongings, were materially poor. Indeed, and he had nothing. Furthermore, he went to snort of his ignorance. The wise man, however, maintained his learning wisdom. No one could ever take it from him. The rich store of knowledge in his mind and in his heart. Many years ago in the village of Tamora, they lived a beautiful young girl. Her name was Marina. And she was a daughter of a blind woman. They lived near a cave which had a stream flowing through at dawn on a sunset. And I loved to bathe the stream. Now there was a several young men who wished to marry her because of her beauty. But she was only interested in looking after her mother. One day while she was bathing her favorite part of the steam, in her favorite part of the steam, an enormous eel startled her by coming very close and touching her. Day after day the eel would do this. And Inuna grew quite accustomed to the eel's presence. Once admiring her new friend one day, when to her surprise a strange began to happen. The eel stood up and changed into a handsome boy. I am Tuna, she said. God and protector of freshwater eels. Because of your beauty and charm, I have left my gloomy home to win your love. Please be mine. Overcome by the young man's beauty, Inuna could only nod her head. And that day, Tuna became her lover in this human form. Always he changed back into an eel and he returned to the steam. As time passed, Tuna began to grow unhappy. He was being unfaithful to Inuna, sure he could never say for so long, but he loved her and through it broke his heart, decided to leave. Sweet Papa's Mignon and Munchan. This is a story about two gardeners, Samder and Singh, who lived in the eel of Sikar. 25 movies before Singh had been born in Selvag Mel Sanwan, son of Yagadna. Even though he learned to count before he could tell you the exact time it looked and the difference he drew. He had schooling. He had little schooling and could read and write, only enough to get by. There was nothing and he did not know what the earth and the crops he planted. Also there are Singh's neighbor. He lived in a small hut which he built himself, and a time of his marriage, but now his wife. Myra's dead and he lived alone. He missed her and aloo pies were she made. No one had ever been able to make aloo pies like my. The walls of the hut were whitewashed both inside and outside. On the inside walls there were many pictures of all the scenes of India. Suma kept the hut very clean. She chopped it every day with a broom and he brought from form Singh's wife Rumin. Sunda was a very short man with bent legs. There was not one tooth in his mouth. He could yet he could eat anything. Singh's little boy Ramesh saw him eating whole cucumbers, skin and oil and roasted corn. How can he do it? Ramesh asked Singh. Suma's gums as hard as rockstone over there and I wouldn't like him to bite me. Anashe and his family. As it happens to everybody, Anashe got married and his wife was named Croxy. She was a really happy little pretty little lady. They got along like a knife and a fork. Croxy did everything for Nancy, cleaned the house and swept the yard and cooked the food. Everything went along merrily but also happened hard times came and Nancy and Croxy were short on food and was a thing Nancy couldn't bear. Now Croxy had a pig that she kept in her yard and the hungrier Anashe got the more to in his mind towards that pig. He dared not to ask Croxy to kill the pig because it was her prized possession and the thought of roast fork with him the night and day and the sight of the pig made him trouble. And Anashe got so anxious that he finally took his bed and laid there with his eyes closed holding his belly groaning. Croxy did her best to look after him. She boiled up tea and made from the leaf of life. She put cold flanels on his head melting work and Anashe just laid there and groaned. Croxy was at her wits end. Croxy whispered to Nancy, I'm sinking fast you must get a doctor. So Croxy let out a look for the doctor. As soon as she was gone, Anashe jumped out the window and sprinted into the bush. So it was that Croxy coming along the road and not Anashe described as a doctor coming the other way. The king of the castle was having a party and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if he could stay in the castle. The boy was sad to say goodbye to his goat but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There once was a wasp who lived in the savanna. One day she made her choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and help her connect with others. One day a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle and meet the king. When she got there she saw that the king had a goat with him. The bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet the bee and they became friends quickly. The next day the bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. The bee didn't know what happened but she knew that would help to be careful among the king from now on. Once upon a time there was a dog who loved to play catch. She would run after the ball and fetch it. Once a time for her owner however one day she was playing and she ran two hands and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vat to sit she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore. However she was still happy to be with the owner. One day the dog met the goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give her some food. The goat was so grateful that it followed her everywhere she went from then on. Once there was a little goat named Benny. Benny was friendly and loved to play with the little boy. One day Benny ate all of the boy's clues. Benny was sorry for doing this and promised not to do it again. Benny was happy to be around the boy and enjoyed spending time with him. The alligators are large reptiles. Alligators are large reptiles that live in swamps in the southeastern United States. They can grow up to 15 feet long and weigh over a thousand pounds. Alligators have a thick scaly skin that is between green and a brown color. They have a long nose and sharp teeth and brown color. They have a long nose and sharp teeth. Alligators are good swimmers and they could stay up to water for up to an hour. They hunt for fish, frogs and other small animals and dangerous animals should be avoided. Once there was a agouti who made too many crunchy things and developed a terrible case of gas. Whenever she leant out a grain everyone around her would point and laugh. She tried to mask the smell of perfume but nothing seemed to work. She even tried standing on her head but the only thing that seemed to help was holding her breath. Unfortunately when she reacted to something her gas would escape and it would cycle and the cycle would start all over again. When the boy asked for a loon he had a great feeling about it. He walked with his soft-legged grass and acted like he knew what to be expected. He then extended his hand out and waited for the answer. The boy always had an act and he was finally accepted into a great acting school and he was over the moon. His parents were supportive and they did not have the money to pay for it all right so the boy took out a loon. He was very nervous but he knew this opportunity and to extend himself as much as possible. The boy was very excited to get his loon accepted. He had worked hard to extend his grasp on acting and was very excited to see how far he could go with it. I have always been a goal-oriented person when I set my sights on something. I put all my effort into achieving it. It has led me to be very successful in areas of my life. One area where this particularly drew is my lifting. I am a very competitive power lifter. I have flown all over the world to compete. I love the challenge of lifting the power of an individual that comes with setting and achieving goals. I am also very concerned about my reaction to things quickly. This has accepted me in my career as well as other girls. I am able to extend myself beyond this accepted as normal and achieve great things. This has allowed me to mass my fear as a confident successful person. I have always been a driven person. When I set my mind up to something I usually achieve it but because I am very proactive. I never give up easy. I never give up easy and I always find a way to get things done. My friends know if they need help with anything they can come to me and I will be there for them. I am also very independent and I like to do things on my own. I am not the type of person to ask for help unless I really need it. I was given a long difficult task but I figured it out quickly and adopted a positive attitude at first beyond my grasp. I fetched my knowledge muscles and in a single minute I covered all the of the ground. I am able to cover more ground and less time. Sometimes I grasp my breath as I run. I keep going and I am electing to extend my running time today. I hope I can keep the pace and not get too tired and among the first two ministries. I remove my mask and enjoy the feeling of accomplishment. I was vexed when my birthday toy had turned out to be a shoot. I had asked the gift I could grasp to play with. I had waited so long for it but now I did not know how to act. Should I tell my mother that I was sad? I think it may hurt her feelings. Sculpture was a long thin toy I would just love to sell. It was easy to grasp and carry but it vexed many people. They would ask why it was so long and expensive. The toy that was meant to do. I enjoyed running because it was a softer way to get from place to place. I am running. When I am running I sometimes grasp for air but it is a good feeling because it means that I am working hard. I am also electing to extend my running. I am sitting around all day. This is something that is accepted amongst runners and we do not care what we look like when we are running because we are wearing a mask of determination. I enjoy a swipe of pace. I grasp for air and elect to extend my run. The goat you adopted is going to destroy the clothes you are sewing for the king. This is not a real story because the goats are not known to eat clothes. If they did your clothes would not be destroyed. Once there was a little boy who owned a goat. The boy loved his goat and took very good care of him. One day the king decided he wanted to adopt the goat and make up his The boy was sad to lose his goat but was happy and gave the home with a king. The king gave the boy a task to do each day to take care of the goat. The boy enjoyed doing this and was happy to help out. One day the boy went to pick up the goat and found that all his clothes were shredded in a mess of The boy knew the goat must have eaten them. The boy was very sad as clothes had been destroyed but he was glad that the goat had a good home and was taken care of by the king. One day a little boy found the goat in the forest. The goat was very hungry so the boy took it home and fed it. The goat was so grateful that it followed the boy everywhere it went. One day the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party and he invited the boy and the goat to join. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed that he asked the goat if he could stay in the castle. The boy said that he would start to say goodbye to the goat but he knew that it would be well cared for at the castle. There was once a wasp who lived in the savanna. One day she made a choice to extend her sofa side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helping her to connect with others. One day a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle and meet the king. When she got there she saw that the king had a goat with him. The bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet the bee and they became friends quickly. The next day the bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time she found that the goat was gone. The king was in a very bad mood. The bee didn't know what happened but she knew that she would be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time there was a dog who loved to play catch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However one day when she was playing she ran too hard and strained her back. The owner took her to the vet and said she needed rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore however she was still happy to be with the owner. One day the dog met the goat at the park. The goat was hungry and the dog offered some food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from now on. Oh yeah I do. Diary of the one peaked. Well yeah. Uh one one. Well the first one is about well he got the diary and he didn't want to get it because he didn't want to have it because um he thought it was a girl. Diary just for girls and then his brother pushed him around and all his friends pushed him around because he was carrying around a book that had diary on it. Yeah yeah and how he overcomes it and he became proud of the book. Uh well he started um writing it more and well he walked around with it more and then he just bothered with all the books he was seeing. Yeah. What he did well he talked to his best friend earlier about it and then he told his mother he didn't want the diary anymore and when he finished the diary she uh did she gave him another one and then well he well that was yeah TV shows yeah. Um uh yeah. Um Brooklyn Nine-Nine. Well it is about a police that he's very goofy and funny and he stayed there. He got a new captain of the precinct and the captain was like abnormal he was like acting kind of like a robot and he then both of them kind of robot robot on each other at the end. She got more serious and then the captain got more goofy kind of. Yeah I like music. Like I don't think I have a favorite type of music. I like listening to it have shape of you. Uh it goes like I'm in love with the shape of you. Yeah yes yeah. Yeah. Yeah I like food but I don't really have a favorite I'm not really well I am a picky person when it comes to food but I'm not really that picky as in what type of food. Like if my mom and father ask me like what you want to eat I'll just say anything. No not just anything it tastes good once it tastes good. Okay yeah well not really because I don't like certain foods and I don't like to try new foods so that's just well no it's not that I don't like them it's just I never tried them like stewed chicken I know stewed chicken is like a popular food but I don't think I ever tried stewed chicken and I don't eat it it's just that I didn't try it I never tried it. Uh well I think it's the only chicken I don't like is fry I like the curry I mean the only the only one I don't like is this stew because I like the curry I like the barbecue I like the fry. Huh I see. I'm kind of anxious. What's the stress? Um I don't know maybe it's just the test and the stress of knowing that the test is there and that after study so much and I'm not studying but I am studying but I don't feel like I study enough. Um sometimes I just go in the shower and cry because like and it's just it's too bad I'm not crying. Thinking about how the day at SEA will be like and how I'll just be there and thinking what school I'll get into and how the rest of my life uh Hillview College not Dung I live Dung in the east yeah yeah I want to be a mechanical engineer past papers yeah so well what I used to do is I used to go on my computer and play games but now that SEA come I can't play that anymore so I'll probably just go and like my trampoline and jump for a little bit just stay there and sometimes just lie down in the trampoline just look up at the sky so on Christmas well for the first week I would keep it I would study and thing and feel like Christmas week throughout Christmas is then I'll start to go on to play games and thing and Christmas stuff and the week after the third week the last week I would continue to study good presents well I'm not really expecting any like good good present well I expect some good presents but it's just because SEA is just now and I won't really get to use them but uh VR headset that should be like video games and yeah yeah yeah yeah I like play with any game it's half called it's all Fortnite and Apex and thing it's just games uh Fortnite because it's not really that deadly as the other games it just kind of fun and it's have a mix with fun and like it's have it don't have it have more action than other games it more like they collab more they have more like real life things yeah well I don't have a pet my sister have a pet but then I really get to play with the dog a lot yeah well long two months vacation I would play a lot of games I would um my friends and go watch movies hunting but mostly probably just still man playing yeah too young yeah um kind of like stressful because they have to watch them all the time and I supposed to be the responsible but um so anything they do and my side I'll get blamed for it so yeah yeah yeah yeah thank you no you you you you you you