 Right? Ready? Okay, so you all can start. Name, class, school. I am Chloe Ramjathan. I attend Chagonas Government Primary School and I am in standard five. The Man of Peace. Born on 2nd October 1869, Mohandas Gandhi belonged to a privileged class in India. His father thought Prime Minister of several leading Indian states had little education. Yet he taught his son, Mohandas, the values of kindness, honesty and humility. These were to prepare him for a life of great compassion towards others. Mohandas, a boy, was no brilliant student at school. In fact, he found it difficult to learn multiplication tables. He later wrote, He spun tops and played with rumble balloons. He was quiet and obedient and learned to carry out the orders of his elders, without any question. While at high school, Mohandas married a pretty little girl called Kastrabi. Both of them were only 13 at the time. The marriage at such a tender age was nothing strange. Child marriages were arranged by Hindu families and were the customary of all over India. In spite of his early marriage, Mohandas continued his education. In fact, many of his friends were learned and wise men. Whenever they came to visit, he would sit quietly in a corner and listen attentively as they expanded their great wisdom. Mohandas was particularly impressed by one of the beliefs of these wise men. It is stated that in all religions there is good and that people's beliefs should be respected. On completing secondary school, Mohandas went to England to study law. This was to become a great experience for young Mohandas. He was to adjust his Hindu ways to the lifestyle of English. The Surprise Ms. Kornroop looked with some interest at the group of five students, huddled together at the back of the class. It was recess time and the five standard five students seemed deeply engrossed in conversation. What were they up to? Were they planning something mischievous or just all talking? As they usually did, Ms. Kornroop decided not to pry. It was indeed a wise decision for the mini-conference where Lee concerned her. Carla had been informed that Friday would be Ms. Kornroop's birthday. Ms. Kornroop was affectionately called Ms. Kornsoop by her students. They all admired and respected her greatly. Friday was to be her birthday and the students agreed to have a surprise birthday party for her. In order for it to be a real surprise, they decided that no one else in the class would be told about their plan. It was agreed therefore that the five of them would be responsible for the eats and drinks of the party. Ria would bring sandwiches for 25 people. Hafizah and Carla would each ask their mother to bake a cake. Mark said that he would ask his dad to make 25 mini-routines. On hearing this, the others responded by saying, oh, they all knew how tasty Mark's dad made his mini-routines. And anxious Lee looked forward to this mouth-watering experience once more. Thrava indicated that he would supply the drinks. He would make a special fruit punch. The Master Sihroi of Dominica The first people to live on the island of Dominica were the Arawak Indians. Once there was an Arawak Indian chief called Sisaru who lived in a cave or hillside. A group of hunters secretly followed the Indian chief one day and his path led them to the cave on the hill where he lived. After arguing among themselves, they decided to venture into the cave. They found him covered with the colored feathers of a parrot. The hunters were impressed by the deep green and violet feathers and they thought he must have divine powers. So they started to worship him by praying to him and asking him to tell the future. Soon they began to ask him favors. In order to grant their wishes, he gave them the things they had asked for from his cave. One day a woman came to him and asked him to give her a child. Knowing he did not have a child in his cave, he became afraid that others would find out he did not have supernatural powers. Late that night he crept out of his cave and set out to sea. Some say that the steps from his cave that led into the sea can still be seen between the carib lands of the Caracay and Caracay. From out of the clouds a large full-bodied green bird flew over the quiet blue of the Caribbean Sea. Early morning mist was slowly rising from the waters. The greenish-blue head of the bird turned towards rugged volcanic peaks strutted in clouds. Arachne Arachne was a maiden who became famous throughout Greece. Through she was neither rich nor beautiful. Nor did she come from any great city. She lived in an obscured little village and her father was a humble dyer of wool. In this he was very skillful, producing many varied shades. Above all he was famous for the clear bright scarlet which is made from shellfish and which was the most glorious of all the colours in ancient Greece. Even more skillful than her father was Arachne. It was her task to spin the fleshy, fleecy wool into a fine soft thread and to weave it into cloth on the high standing loom within the cottage. Arachne was small and pale from much work. Her eyes were light and her hair was a dusty brown. Yet she was quick and graceful. Her fingers, rummage as they were, went so fast that it was hard to follow their flickering movements. So soft and even was her thread. So fine her cloth, so gorgeous her embroidery that soon her products were known all over Greece. No one had seen the likes of them before. At last Arachne's fame became so great that people used to come from far and wide to watch her working. Even the graceful nature goddess would steal in from steam or forest and peep shyly throughout the dark doorway. They watched in wonder the white arms of Arachne as she stood at the loom and threw the shuttle from hand to hand between the hanging threads. They watched as she drew out the long wool, fine as hair, as she sat spinning. Surely the goddess Arachne herself must have thought her. People would murmur to one another. Who else could know the secret of such marvelous skill? Arachne was used to being wondered at and she was immensely proud of the skill that had brought so many to look on her. Preparation for the hunt As the sun crept over the eastern sky, casting a rosy glow on the trees. On hilltops a little Ararak boy sprung out of his cotton hammock, lapped over several low wooden stools, edge past his father's hammock and crept out through the back of the antropa. He raced down the center of the village and when he reached the priest hut stopped. He looked around expectantly at the neat circle of antropas which surrounded him. All of them looked alike with their attached roofs. Reaching low, almost touching the ground, no human sound was audible, only the screeching of an owl and the low hooting of some jungle boots. He waited, still no sign of anyone. Quickly he put his fingers to his mouth and let out a long, sure whistle. Seconds later he got his first reply on whistle, then another and then several more. He knew now that his friends were awake and would come to meet him. Today was a special day for Namba and his friends. It was the day that the hunting party left and it was their task to help in the preparations. When the men left the village they were particularly in charge. They had to help protect the women and girls and see that everything went well. They felt proud to be given such responsibilities. Namba especially, since he was the oldest among the boys, he walked into the priest hut and looked around. He felt a special joy this morning. For with each hunt that took place, his chances of joining grew increasingly greater. Namba snapped out of his daydream. It was one of his friends who was following him. The first coconut tree. The second coconut tree. The third coconut tree. The fourth coconut tree. The fifth coconut tree. The sixth coconut tree. The first coconut tree. Many years ago in the village of Tamura there lived a beautiful young girl. Her name was Aina and she was the daughter of a blind woman. They lived near a cave which had a stream flowing through it and at dawn and sunset Aina loves to bathe in the stream. Now there were several young men who wished to marry Aina because of her beauty. But she was only interested in looking after her mother. One day while she was bathing in her favorite part of the stream, Aina almost eels startled her by coming very close and touching her. Day after day the eel would do this. Indeed Aina grew quite accustomed to the eel's presence. She was admiring her new friend one day. When to her surprise something strange began to happen. The eel stood up and changed into a handsome boy. I am Tuna, he said. God and protector of all freshwater eels. Because of your beauty and charm I've left my gloomy home to win your love. Please be mine. Overcome by the young man's beauty Aina could only nod her head. From that day Tuna became her lover in his human form. Always though he changed black into...he changed back... I finished this paper and I started this. Take a break and I just want to talk to you about something. In this kitchen, you're not eating, so it's just conversation. Just relax. So what's your name? Chloe Ramdatter. Chloe Ramdatter. Chloe, I took Chloe home earlier. I am 11. Do you have brothers and sisters? Yeah, I have two sisters. And your older sister? I have a younger sister and an older sister. And in the school? My younger sister in the school. And your older sister? She went to this school. She going to college in America Yeah No She's going to UMBC in Maryland Yeah, yeah And when you get older, do you have an idea what you want to be? Like what job or anything? Kind of. I want to be a teacher and I also want to be a doctor. But I'm not too sure yet. Okay, when you have time, study hard so you can make up your mind. And as long as you work hard, you will be successful. Right? So, do you play sports? I used to do dance. I don't play any sports. Where is it? I have this dance company. It's called Tamara Cozier Dance Company. And they have a studio? Yeah. I can't remember. I think so. I think it's at Central Athletic. So you still take classes there? Yeah. But who are all these? That was before COVID. Oh yes, before COVID. But do you want to start again? Yes. Did you tell your parents you want to start again? No. Okay, you have to tell them. And you can see. Okay. Okay. So when you were in the dance company, did you ever perform in front of people? Yes. Like when they put on a dance recital? Yeah. How many times? Two times. Just the sleeves. The sleeves. Where did you perform? Little Carp Chair. Little Carp Chair. Yes. So was there a big crowd? Yeah. Okay. Very nice. So now you're famous. Are you famous? No. But if you continue with the dance, maybe you'll become famous. So in the dance recital, how many dances longer did you have to do? Just one or more? More than one. So was it separate dances or was it... Separate dances. Because sometimes it's a whole story they tell through dance. Do you remember? Because sometimes they get home and they're swam in the lake or they were sleeping in the gym. So they tell a whole story through dance. Can you remember when they did that? No, I don't think they did that when I performed. And you still have the clothes on? Yes. Okay. Tell him. Tell him. Tell him what to start again. Did they start? Do you know what they started? Yeah. I think they started by... You can check on that. And see if they started by. Okay. So you like dance. Anything else? Like outside of school? Beside dance? Not really. And do you play sports? I don't know. But at home, do you like to watch TV? Yeah. What kind of shows do you like? I like to watch like investigating TV. Shows like Nancy Drew and Enola Holmes and stuff. Yes. Did you see the new one? Yeah. Did you watch Netflix? Yeah. So you like to watch mysteries? Yeah. Do you like to read those kind of books? Can you tell me some books like that? Nancy Drew. That's really all. Okay. All right. So you're studying at Calhoun? Yeah. So your last week, can you remember what you did? When you last went there? You were at Calhoun. Oh, I had a birthday party in like, I live in like a little village and I'm friends with all the children in the village. So we sometimes we just ride in the road. So I had a birthday party outside in the road with all the people and we was riding and stuff. What did you have to eat? My mom had made, I think she made like mini burgers and stuff. Okay. And then you have cake and some ice cream. So now this recording, it will help other children learn how to read. So it's very helpful what you're doing here. Okay. So I want to tell your parents what you're doing. So I want to continue it. You know this last set, I will tell you, you know this is one story. This is not one story. So you can find it, it's not making sense. Because some of these paragraphs are not connected to other paragraphs. They're separate paragraphs. But don't worry about that. I'm just telling you, don't be surprised. So you take your time and when you're done, hopefully you'll have a little treat for you. Okay. I am Tuna, he said, God and protector of all freshwater eels. Because of your beauty and charm, I've left my gloomy home to win your love. Please be mine. Overcome by the young man's beauty, Ina could only nod her head. From that day, Tuna became her lover in his human form. Always though, he changed back into an eel when he returned to the stream. As time passed, Tuna began to grow unhappy. He knew he was being unfair to Ina because he could never stay with her for long. Because he loved her, and though it broke his heart, he decided to leave. Sweet Peppers, Manu and Moonshine. This is a story about two gardeners, Samda and Sing. We lived in the village of El Secura. 55 years before Sing had been born in Silver Mill, Sam won the son of a gardener. Even before he learned to count, he could tell you the exact time it took the different seeds to grow. He had little schooling and could read and write only enough to get by, but there was nothing he did not know about the earth and the crops he planted. Old Samda was Sing's neighbor. He lived in a small mud hut which he built himself at the time of his marriage, but now his wife Mai was dead and he lived alone. He missed her and the alu-paisi made. No one had ever been able to make alu-paisi like Mai. The walls of the hut were whitewashed both inside and outside. On the inside walls there were many pictures, all scenes of India. Samda kept the hunt very clean, sweeping and sweating every day with a broom he had bought from Sing's wife, Rukmin. Samda was a very short man with bent legs. There was not one tooth in his mouth, yet he could eat anything. Sing's little boy, Ramesh, saw him eating whole cucumbers, skin and all, and roasted corn. How can he do it? Ramesh asked Sing. Old Samda comes as hard as the rock stone over there, and I wouldn't like him to bite me. The Advantage of Knowledge Many, many years ago, a rich man, Jean Claude, a poor man, Henri Durant, lived side by side in Bordeaux, France. Jean Claude had a fine house and garden, horses and carriages. He also had many servants to wait on him, but he was ignorant and silly. Henri Durant thought poor in gold and silver was rich in knowledge and understanding. His learning and wisdom helped him to understand people. He also appreciated the differences between ugliness and beauty, good and evil. The two men argued endlessly. The rich man said that money was more important than anything else in the world. He claimed that if anyone had money, he could buy whatever he wanted. What good is all your wisdom? He often asked his neighbour. If you haven't the money, to buy the things you need. The wise poor man was too discreet to try to explain his point of view to the silly rich man. He knew he was quite incapable of understanding it. One day, war broke out. The entire town was in ruins after the fighting ended. Poor men were stripped of everything. They were both forced to flee for their lives and seek refuge in another place. The rich man, without his belongings, was materially poor indeed. He now had nothing. Furthermore, wherever he went, he was scorned for his ignorance. The wise man, however, maintained his learning and wisdom. No one could ever take from him the rich store of knowledge in his mind and in his heart. Anasi and his family. As happened to everybody, Anasi got married. His wife was named Kruxsi, and she was a really pretty little lady. They got along like a knife and fork. Kruxsi did everything for Anasi. Cleaned the house and swept the yard, and cooked the food and everything went along merrily. But as all so happened, hard times came. Anasi and Kruxsi were short of food, which was a thing Anasi couldn't bear. Now Kruxsi had a pig that she kept in the yard, and the hungrier Anasi got, the more his mind turned towards that pig. He dared not ask Kruxsi to kill the pig, because it was her prized possession. But the thought of roast pork was within him, night and day, and the sight of the pig made him tremble. Anasi got so anxious that he finally took to his bed. He lay there with his eyes closed, holding his belly and groaning. Kruxsi did her best to look after him. She boiled up tea made from the leaf of life. She put cold flanels on his head. Nothing worked. Anasi just lay there and groaned. Kruxsi was at her wits end. Kruxsi whispered to Anasi, thinking fast, you must get the doctor. So Kruxsi set out to look for the doctor. As soon as she was gone, Anasi jumped out of the window and sprinted into the bush. So it was that Kruxsi coming along the road that Anasi disguised as a doctor, coming the other way. The Great Raid The Great Raid Even though Tukwarye had passed the rite of ordeal with showing fear or crying out in pain, he was not too sure that he wanted to go on his first trip On those raids, his tribe, the Caribs and Kalangos would ride the Arawaks, Ol'laku, carriage as they were called. The Kalinago would take captives home to become slaves. The night before his first raid, the choir went to show his war paint and father's to an Ol'laku Kari woman named Luwani. She lived at the edge of the village. She had been captured in an earlier raid, but Tukwarye's father, the chief, had separated her because she had saved Tukwarye's life when he was a newborn baby. Still, she lived alone at the edge of the village because she was despised. When Tukwarye saw her, she was pounding cassava, but she let the pestle rest when he spoke. As you see, I am now a warrior, and tomorrow I go on a raid, the biggest ever made. Indeed, you look like a warrior. With your new scars, your bright pain, your new tip arrows, and your expression of pride, but in your heart, do you wish to kill a mere mime and tear young girls from their homelands to live a life of slavery under cruel masters? Of course that is what I wish. That is the destiny of my race, to fight, to ponder, to capture, and to kill, and to feast on the dead of our enemies, he added. The goat you adopted is going to destroy the clothes you had sewn for the king. This is not a real story because goats are not known to eat clothes. Even if they did, your clothes would not be destroyed. Once there was a little boy who owned a goat. The boy loved his goat and took very good care of him. One day, the king decided he wanted to adopt the goat and make him his pet. The boy was sad to lose his goat, but was happy that he would have a good home with the king. The king gave the boy a task to do each day, to take care of the goat. The boy enjoyed doing this and was happy to help out. One day, the boy went to pick up the goat and found that all of his clothes were shredded on a mess. The boy knew that the goat must have eaten them. The boy was very sad that his clothes had been destroyed, but he was glad that the goat had a good home and was being taken care of by the king. One day, a little boy found a goat in the forest. The goat was very hungry, so the boy took it home and fed it. The goat was so grateful that it followed the boy everywhere he went. One day, the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party, and he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if it could stay at the castle. The boy was sad to say goodbye to his goat, but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There once was a wasp who lived on the savanna. One day, she made the choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day, a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle to meet the king. When she got there, she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with him. The goat was also happy to meet Bee and they became friends quickly. The next day, Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time, she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what had happened, but she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time, there was a dog who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However, one day when she was playing, she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vet who said she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore. However, she was still happy to be with her owner. One day, the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some of her food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from then on. One day, the boy and the goat came across a castle. The king of the castle was having a party. And he invited the boy and the goat to join him. The boy was so excited that he immediately said yes. The king was very impressed with the goat and asked if it could stay at the castle. The boy was sad to say goodbye to his goat, but he knew it would be well cared for at the castle. There once was a wasp who lived on the savanna. One day, she made the choice to extend her softer side to others and act more among them. She found that this made her feel better and helped her to connect with others. One day, a wasp named Bee decided to go to the castle to meet the king. When she got there, she saw that the king had a goat with him. Bee was very excited to meet the goat and started to chat with it. The goat was also happy to meet the bee and they became friends quickly. The next day, Bee went to the castle to see the king again. This time, she found that the goat was gone and the king was in a very bad mood. Bee didn't know what had happened. But she knew she would have to be careful around the king from now on. Once upon a time, there was a dog who loved to play fetch. She would run after the ball and fetch it for her owner. However, one day when she was playing, she ran too hard and strained her back. Her owner took her to the vet who said she needed to rest. The dog was sad because she couldn't play fetch anymore. However, she was still happy to be with her owner. One day, the dog met a goat at the park. The goat was very hungry and the dog offered to give it some of her food. The goat was so grateful that it followed the dog everywhere she went from then on. There once was a little boy who had a goat named Benny. Benny was a very friendly goat and loved to play with the little boy. One day, Benny ate all of the boy's clothes. Benny was sorry for doing this and promised not to do it again. Benny was always happy to be around the little boy and enjoyed spending time with him. Alligators are large reptiles that live in swamps in the southern east United States. They can grow to be over 15 feet long and weigh over 1,000 pounds. Alligators have a thick scaly skin that is between green and brown in color. They have a long, narrow snout and sharp teeth. Alligators are good swimmers and can stay underwater for up to an hour. They hunt for fish, frogs, and other small animals. Alligators are dangerous animals and should be avoided. There once was an agouti who ate too many crunchy things and developed a terrible case of gas. Whenever she let out a groan, everyone around her would point and laugh. She tried to mask the smell with perfume, but nothing seemed to work. She even tried standing on her head, but the only thing that seemed to help was holding her breath. Unfortunately, when she reacted to something, her gas would escape and the cycle would start all over again. When the boy went to ask for Yaloon, he had a great feeling about it. He walked in with a soft drug gas and acted like he knew he would be accepted. He extended his hands out and waited for the answer. The boy had always wanted to act, and when he was finally accepted into a great acting school, he was over the moon. His parents were supportive, but they did not have the money to pay for it. So the boy took out Yaloon. He was a little nervous about it, but he knew it was worth it. He was determined to make the most of his opportunity and extend himself as much as possible. The boy was very excited to get his Yaloon accepted. He had worked hard to extend his gas and acting and was very excited to see how far he could go with it. I have always been a goal-oriented person. When I see my sights on something, I put all of my effort into achieving it. This has led to me being very successful in many areas of my life. One area where this is particularly true is in my lifting. I am a competitive power lifter and have flown all over the world to compete. I love the challenge of lifting and the feeling of accomplishment that comes with setting and achieving goals. I am also very crisp at my reaction to things quickly. This has helped me in my career as well as in other areas of my life. I am able to extend myself beyond what is accepted as normal and achieving great things. This has allowed me to mask my fear and present myself as a confident and successful person. I have always been a driven person. When I set my mind to something, I usually achieve it because I am very proactive. I never give up easily and I always find a way to get things done. My friends know that if they need help with anything, they can come to me and I will always be there for them. I am also very independent and I like to do things on my own. I am not the type of person to ask for help unless I really need it. I was given a long and difficult task but I figured it out quickly and adopted positive attitude. At first it seemed beyond my grasp but I flexed my knowledge, muscle and in a single minute covered all the points. I enjoy the sensation of wind rushing past me as I run. It is a swifter way to get around walking and I can cover more ground in less time. I sometimes gasp for breath as I run but I keep going. I am electing to extend my running time today. I hope I can keep up the pace and not get too tired. I am among the first to finish the race. I remove my mask and enjoy the feeling of accomplishment. I was vexed when my birthday toy turned out to be issued. I had asked for a gift that I could grasp and play with. I had waited so long for it but now I did not know how to act. Should I tell my mother that I was sad? I think it may hurt her feelings. The sculpture was a long thin toy that gives shops I love to sell. It was easy to grasp and carry but it vexed many people. They would ask why it was so long and why it was so expensive. It was a toy that was meant to be enjoyed but it was not always easy to do so. I enjoy running because it is a swifter way to get from place to place. When I am running I sometimes gasp for air but it is a good feeling because it means I am working hard. I am also electing to extend my life by running instead of sitting around all day. This is something that I accepted among runners. We do not care what we look like when we are running because we are wearing a mask of determination. Enjoying the swifter place I gasp for air and elected to extend my run. Thank you for watching!